Hey there gurus.
Welcome to this demonstration lesson,
Exploring Your Amazon Web Services AWS Account.
In this lesson, we'll review our scenario
and then roll up our sleeves and dive into the console.
We'll close out with some exam tips.
Let's get started.
You've been tasked with creating a new AWS account.
This means that you'll need to secure the root user
and create a daily user
for your team to start working in that account.
In order to follow along
you'll need to create your own AWS account.
This cannot be done in our sandbox.
Let's head in.
Okay, let's create our account.
Check your resources for a link to this page.
We'll come up here to the top right hand corner
and click create an AWS account.
We'll need to pick our root user email address
and account name, and then verify that email address.
So let's do that.
We successfully verified our email address
so now we need to pick a password and let's confirm that.
So I'll fill out all
of this information here and you do the same.
I'll pause the video here and then when you're finished
come back to this point.
Okay, with our information in
we can continue to our next step.
We'll enter in our card information to be used for billing.
With that complete, we can move on to our next step.
It wants to confirm our identity
so we'll let it do that by putting
in our mobile phone number and entering the security check.
As soon as you get your verify code
go ahead and plug that in and then we'll continue.
And here's where you would select your support plan.
I'm gonna choose the basic support
or free account for this demonstration.
Let's complete our signup and we've got our new account.
We'll go ahead and go into the management console.
Our first login should be with our root user.
We'll put in our email address and our password.
Congratulations. You've created your first AWS account.
Step one is we need to secure our root user.
So let's head into IAM or Identity and Access Management.
Now right off the top
we see we need to add MFA for our root user.
Thanks AWS.
We'll click add MFA.
We'll use an authenticator app.
We'll call this device my phone and we'll say next.
In order to use MFA
you will need a compatible application
like Google Authenticator, Duo Mobile
or an Authy app on your mobile device
or computer or whatever device you're using to authenticate.
I've already got Google Authenticator on my phone
so I'll use that
and I'll select show QR code to get this going.
And now we need to enter our codes and add MFA.
Perfect. Our MFA device set up was successful.
Our second step is now to set up our daily user.
So let's go over on the left hand side to users.
We'll do create user.
We are gonna call it our daily user.
We want to provide them access to the console.
For this demonstration
we're going to select a create an IAM user.
Typically, if it was an actual person
you could use the identity center
which is a little more secure.
We do wanna set up programmatic access using keys
and things like that for this demonstration.
So we'll say, I wanna create an IAM user.
Let's do a custom password.
You can create your own custom password here
just to make sure it is eight characters long
and that it follows the rules listed.
Now, typically, you would want your user to
create a new password when they sign in.
For this demonstration, we'll uncheck this box
because we just put in our custom password.
So we'll hit next.
For our demonstration
we'll attach policies directly to this user.
Typically, you would add your user to a group
so that all of your permissions would be
to a single group and not individual users.
For this demonstration, we'll allow administrator access.
So we'll type in admin
and we'll select administrator access.
If you open up this policy
you'll see that this particular policy allows every action
on every resource.
Now, typically, you would want to select specific resources
and actions to be able to follow the principle
of lease privilege, but for our demonstration
we'll just grant the administrator access here.
We'll come on down and click next.
Let's review our information here.
We've got our daily user with our custom password.
We are not requiring a password reset.
They will have administrator access
and we don't have any tags.
So let's go ahead and create our user.
Perfect. We've got our user listed here.
So from here we wanna make sure we grab our account number
so we can sign in successfully.
Let's go up here to my account, see your account ID,
copy that account ID,
go ahead and paste it somewhere on the side
like in a text document.
Now we can sign out.
We'll leave this page and now we'll try logging back in
as our new user.
We'll select I am User, we'll put in our account ID,
click next
and now we enter our username and the password
which is Daily User with our password we selected.
And we'll sign in.
Great.
We are now in as our daily user, and we can go forth,
share this with our team and get going.
Great job gurus.
And with that, we're ready for our exam tips.
Know how to protect the root user.
Enable MFA and have a daily user to run daily tasks.
Know how to navigate through the AWS Management console.
Remember those widgets and how to find the service.
Always remember to check the region you're in
before making any changes.
That'll wrap up this lesson, gurus.
I'll see you in the next one when you're ready.