Hey there, Gurus.
Welcome to exploring regions and availability zones.
In this lesson, we'll dive right into AWS regions
and their characteristics.
We'll continue on to availability zones
and their characteristics.
We'll sneak in a quick quiz
before going over our exam tips on this topic.
Let's get started.
An AWS region is a physical location.
AWS groups their regions by geographic locations
and can include several regions within each location.
Observe, the Ohio and North Virginia regions reside
under the US East geographic location.
There are several geographic locations.
These are just a few.
Regions are fully independent and isolated, meaning
that if one region is impacted by, let's say, an earthquake,
the others will not be.
Another characteristic of regions is that they are resource
and service specific, meaning that they are isolated
and resources are not automatically replicated across them.
You would need to replicate any resource in each region.
AWS regions consist of multiple availability zones.
AWS availability zones consist
of one or more physically separated data centers.
Now, this is just to help you understand AZs
and data centers
as AWS has no specific documentation saying anything
as to how many data centers each AZ has.
But let's say that us-east-1a has four data centers,
B and C have three each,
and D, E and F have two data centers each.
Each data center is housed in different facilities.
AWS specifically defines an AZ
as one or more discrete data centers
with redundant power, networking and connectivity
in an AWS region.
Let's talk more about the characteristics
of availability zones.
Now, while they're all housed separately,
and have their own power sources,
they're each connected through low latency links.
AZs are fault tolerant, meaning that if one AZ goes out
of service, the others should not be impacted.
AZs also allow for high availability, which we discussed
in a previous lesson.
Let's say that you have an application running
across multiple AZs, 1a, 1b, and 1c
but 1a goes out of service.
Your application will still be running in 1b and 1c.
Let's take a quick quiz to make sure you understand
all the information we've covered.
I'll give you a scenario and you have three seconds
to decide the right answer.
Let's head into it.
Our first scenario is that you are asked by an executive
if the application launched is fault tolerant.
You investigate and see that it is currently
in us-east-1a only.
Is the application fault tolerant?
If you said that it is not fault tolerant, you are correct.
In order to be considered fault tolerant,
the application would need to span across multiple AZs.
Our last scenario is you have your application running
across multiple AZs, but it's gone down.
What could be the reason?
If you said that it could be
that the whole region went down, you are correct.
Regions are made up of multiple AZs,
so in order for an application running
across multiple AZs to go down, other than human error,
the region itself would have to be out of service.
With that, we're ready for our exam tips.
Remember, a region is global and is made up
of two or more AZs.
An AZ is made up of multiple data centers.
And multi-AZ deployments provide high availability
and fault tolerance.
Great job getting through another lesson, Gurus.
Take a break and I'll see you in the next lesson
when you're ready.