Hey there, Gurus.
Welcome to getting your head in the cloud.
In this lesson, we'll step into the cloud
and cover what the cloud and cloud computing actually is.
We'll close out this lesson
with some specific exam tips on this topic.
Let's get started.
So first off, what exactly is the cloud, Jess?
I'm sure you've heard all the talk about data being
in the cloud or companies migrating to the cloud
and all of the buzz around people working in the cloud.
The cloud has nothing to do
with the fluffy bits in the sky that we like
to pretend are animals having tea.
Are you not doing that?
Just me.
Okay, then.
Well, the cloud is a real actual place
and can be servers located anywhere in the world
that are in your data center or someone else's.
Servers are very powerful computers that handle all
of your requests for, let's say, a pizza shop
and you're ordering online.
Every time you interact
with a website or application online,
there's a server or many servers handling every interaction.
AWS has thousands of servers
across the globe in groups called data centers.
These data centers are scattered in various countries
and we'll talk more about that later in this section.
Check your resources for a link
to more information about data centers.
AWS maximizes use of their servers with virtualization.
Virtualization lets you divide hardware resources
on a single physical server
into smaller units like a loaf of bread.
You share their servers
with other customers using virtualization.
So here we have a server that's divided
into small units called virtual machines.
Each virtual machine or VM is its own little server
or slice that resides on the actual physical server.
That means it has its own operating system, memory,
storage, networking access, and it's yours to use.
Now, using that VM comes with a price,
as you might expect.
Usage is gauged on a meter like a water or electric meter.
Cloud providers like AWS operate a lot like power companies.
There is on-demand usage that requires no upfront payments
or long-term commitments and pay as you go,
pays by the hour or sometimes by the second
for what you use.
With that understood, let's talk
about what cloud computing is.
Cloud computing is the delivery
of computing services over the internet.
Instead of using your own internal data center
or local machine to store data or share applications,
you're using AWS's servers in their data centers.
AWS offers several different kinds
of services, and we'll talk a ton about several of them
in this course.
There are compute services like EC2,
storage services like S3,
networking services like VPC,
database services like RDS,
developer tools like the Code Family,
migration services like Migration Hub,
machine learning services like Rekognition,
auditing services like Trusted Advisor,
security services like IAM
and pricing services like the Pricing Calculator.
Check your resources for a very important whitepaper
that you should read in full before the exam,
and then review the day before the exam.
This 72-page whitepaper is a list
of all of the AWS services broken up into categories
like these here.
Becoming familiar with the many services is your first step
into understanding the AWS Cloud.
With that, we are ready for our first exam tips.
From all that we covered in this lesson,
learn the different service categories.
For example, EC2 is a compute service
And VPC is a networking service.
And read the overview of AWS Services Whitepaper.
It will help you to understand service options,
as well as immediately rule out some wrong answers
in the exam.
Trust me.
Once you've got all that done,
I'll see you in the next lesson.