Hey there, gurus.
Welcome to Introducing Cloud Computing
and Deployment Models.
In this lesson, we'll compare CapEx and OpEx.
Then we'll dive into cloud computing
and talk about advantages and benefits of the cloud.
We'll move into cloud computing models
and then cloud deployment models.
We'll close out this lesson
with some specific exam tips on this topic.
Let's get started.
So throughout your cloud journey
you will hear tons of tech jargon and abbreviations.
Two of these are CapEx and OpEx.
CapEx, or capital expenditures, are upfront purchases
towards your fixed assets like equipment,
property, computers, and software.
OpEx, or operating expenses,
are funds used to run day-to-day operations.
This would include things like employee salaries,
marketing, rent, and research and development.
Let's move into the six advantages of cloud computing.
Now first, you can deploy your applications
around the world at a click of a button,
launch whole environments in minutes.
You can focus on building your applications
instead of managing hardware
as you do not own the data center being used.
With AWS providing to the great masses of the world,
volume discounts are passed on to you,
which provides lower pay as you go prices.
The provided services allow you to innovate more quickly
and deliver your applications faster as well.
Because the cloud is elastic,
your capacity is matched exactly to your demand,
and finally, you pay for what you use
instead of making huge upfront investments
by running a data center.
The benefits of cloud computing
begin with high availability.
Highly available systems are designed
to operate continuously without failure for a long time.
These systems avoid loss of service
by reducing or managing failures.
With elasticity, you don't have to plan ahead
of time how much capacity you need,
which is a huge time saver and cost saver.
You can provision only what you need
and then grow and shrink based on demand.
The cloud gives you increased agility.
All the services you have access to
help you to innovate faster,
giving you faster speed to market.
And durability is all about long-term data protection.
This means your data will remain intact without corruption.
Now these terms are just a few
that you should become familiar with.
Check your resources for a blog post with more terms
to help you really start digging in.
Let's move into our cloud computing models.
Our first stop is Infrastructure as a Service or IaaS.
Think of Infrastructure as a Service as building blocks.
These blocks can be rented
and you can choose how to put them together.
Having a monthly subscription with a hosting company
that serves your website is an example
of Infrastructure as a Service.
Software as a Service, or SaaS,
is using a complete application on demand
that someone offers to users.
Your personal email that you access
through a web browser is considered SaaS.
Platform as a Service, or PaaS, is used by developers
to help develop software using web-based tools
without worrying about the underlying infrastructure.
Tools provided to build a storefront application
that runs on another company's server is an example of PaaS.
And with that, we are ready
to move on to cloud deployment models.
Our first stop in cloud deployment models
is the private cloud.
This just means that your resources
like servers and databases are all on premises.
Your local network or private cloud
is your internal data center.
A private cloud has none of the cloud advantages
we talked about, but it does offer more security
of your data as it is not traversing any public space
and isn't shared with other organizations
with virtualization.
Next is the public cloud.
This is AWS, Azure, and GCP.
You do not have any hardware responsibility
as they provide all the hardware
that provides the services you use.
This option has all of the advantages of the cloud,
like going global in minutes,
no huge investments upfront, et cetera.
Last, is the hybrid cloud model
that brings private and public together.
Hybrid models typically have their sensitive data
stored locally and securely connect
to the public cloud or AWS
using services like VPN and Direct Connect.
VPNs can create a secure connection into the public cloud
for, say, creating new resources in AWS,
and Direct Connect creates a secure connection
for data to move from the public cloud
to the private cloud without traversing the public internet.
We'll talk more about direct connect
in the network technology and services section.
With that, we're ready for our exam tips.
First, understand the six advantages as well as benefits
and terminology of the cloud.
Know the computing models, Infrastructure as a Service,
Software as a Service, and Platform as a Service.
Know the deployment models.
They are private cloud, public cloud, and hybrid cloud,
and that hybrid deployments are supported by Direct Connect.
That will close out this lesson, gurus.
I'll see you in the next one when you're ready.