Hey there, gurus.
Welcome to Introducing Additional Compute Services.
In this lesson, we'll meet Outposts
and then we'll move on to Lightsail.
We'll talk about Batch and then Wavelength.
We're gonna close out this lesson with a quiz
and our exam tips.
Let's get started.
Our first stop is AWS Outposts.
Outpost allow you to run cloud services
in your internal data center, meaning on-premises.
Outposts support hybrid workloads
that need to remain on-premises due to latency
or data sovereignty needs.
Data sovereignty means data residency
and you might have a workload that requires
that the data stays in a particular location.
Outposts can provide that.
They allow you to have access to cloud services and APIs
to develop applications on-premises
and have two offerings in the Outposts family.
There is Outposts Rack and Outposts Servers.
AWS delivers and installs servers individually
or by the rack
depending on the family you selected
into your internal data center.
Lightsail on the other hand is not on-premises.
Lightsail allows you to quickly launch
all the resources you need for small projects
such as pre-configured applications like WordPress websites
or small test environments.
Lightsail also has a very simple user interface
so you really don't need any cloud experience
to navigate it.
Lightsail plans bundle everything you need together.
Server monitoring, SSD-based storage,
DNS management, one-click RDP and SSH access
and a static IP address.
This pricing can provide low, predictable monthly fees
but that is outside of the free tier offering of 750 hours
or three months of Lightsail.
Lightsail for research
allows you to use more powerful computers
for complex research simulations in just a few clicks.
The key to remember about Lightsail
is that it is quick deployments of simple workloads
that can easily scale as they evolve
if you're just starting out with AWS.
Let's move on to AWS Batch.
Batch allows you to process large workloads
into smaller chunks or batches.
It's typically used for longer running jobs.
Batch is capable of running hundreds of thousands
of smaller batch processing jobs
and it dynamically provisions instances
based on the volume of the workload.
So, let's say that World Pizza
needs to send out a newsletter
about the pizza of the month to 50,000 subscribers.
Sage would use Batch to send out batches
of a thousand newsletters at a time
to break up the large job into smaller jobs.
Our last stop is AWS Wavelength.
Now Wavelength delivers ultra-low latency applications
for devices using 5G networking,
meaning users can reach your applications super fast
on mobile networks.
There are a few pieces within Wavelength
that provide the ability to offer that ultra low latency
like zones and subnets.
But don't get caught up in that.
Just remember that Wavelength enables developers
to build applications with ultra low latencies
to devices and users on the mobile network,
meaning 5G.
It's time for our quick quiz.
Our scenario here is you need to select a service
to implement a quick deployment
of a small temporary test environment.
What service can you use to accomplish this?
If you said we should use Lightsail, you're correct.
Lightsail is perfect for quick launches of small projects
like test environments or pre-configured WordPress website.
Our next scenario is
you need to suggest a service
that will allow your data to reside in your data center
and support a hybrid deployment model.
What can you use to do this?
If you said that we should utilize Outposts, you're correct.
Outposts provide low latency
and meet data residency or sovereignty regulations
while still supporting a hybrid deployment model.
With that, we're ready for our exam tips.
Remember, Outposts support hybrid deployment models
while maintaining local data residency requirements.
Lightsail is a compute service
that quickly launches small projects like test environments
or pre-configured WordPress websites.
Batch processes larger, longer workloads
into smaller batches
and Wavelength allows users and devices
to reach applications
without leaving the 5G mobile network.
That's another lesson down.
You're doing great, gurus.
I'll see you in the next lesson when you're ready.