Hey there, Gurus.
Welcome to meeting the AWS Management Console
and accessing AWS.
In this lesson, we'll take a look
at the AWS Management Console.
Then we'll talk a lot about the root user.
We'll move into other ways you can access your AWS resources
and then have a quick quiz.
We'll close out this lesson with some exam tips.
Let's get started.
Ta-da. This is the AWS Management Console.
It is the most popular way to interact
with AWS resources.
The management console is accessible through your browser
and allows you to access your AWS account and resources.
The best thing about the console is that it is user-friendly
and makes it easy to search for and find services.
So it is perfect if you're new to the cloud
or are in a non-technical role,
such as project manager.
You might need to just view if resources are being used.
Of course, if you're in a technical role,
such as an engineer or a developer role,
you could be using the console to create, modify
or terminate resources.
Let's move on to the very important root user.
Now, there can be multiple users in an AWS account
but one of them stands to rule them all.
It is the root user.
This user is initially created
when you set up your AWS account, and it is the only user
that can completely delete the account
and all of the resources within that account.
It is imperative to keep this treasured user protected
and ensure that it's not being used to log
into the AWS account for day-to-day tasks.
So when you create an AWS account,
your first steps should be
to enable multi-factor authentication
on your root user and create a new user
or group to use for your day-to-day tasks
in the IAM or Identity and Access Management service.
Let's move on to how to access your AWS account
through other sources.
We'll start with the CLI or the command line interface.
The CLI allows you to access your account and resources
through a terminal or command window
like the one you see here.
The difference between the CLI and the management console
is that the CLI is mainly used by developers, engineers
and resources because you're using commands
that trigger APIs through your terminal.
Fun fact, sometimes new features are available in the CLI
before they're ready for the management console,
but for the most part, you can do most
of the same things you can do in the console
through the CLI.
The CLI gives you programmatic access, meaning access
to AWS resources through an application or a tool,
like the CLI.
Let's talk more about programmatic access.
Now, the CLI uses a terminal session
to access resources programmatically.
The other ways to gain programmatic access
include application code,
which uses calls or SDKs.
SDKs or software development kits can access resources,
using programming languages like Java, Python, C# and more.
We're ready for a quick quiz question.
Your AWS account was created last week and you're logging
into your account to create some resources.
Should you use the root user to log in?
If you said that you should not use the root user,
you are correct.
Remember, when you create your AWS account,
your first steps need to be to set up MFA
and create your daily user or group.
With that, we're ready for our exam tips.
The root user should be protected by MFA
and not be used for daily tasks.
The root user is more powerful than any other user
and it has the power to delete your account,
among other things.
Understand that the CLI
and SDKs are other options that you can use
to manage your AWS resources.
That'll wrap up this lesson.
Great job getting through another one, Gurus.
Take a break and I'll see you in the next lesson
when you're ready.