Hey there, gurus.
Welcome to reviewing Edge Locations and Local Zones.
In this lesson, we'll explain what latency is
and then move into Local Zones and Edge Locations.
We'll close out this lesson with the quiz and our exam tips.
Let's get started.
We'll start with explaining latency.
So, latency is the amount of time it takes
for a website to load, meaning the amount of time
between a user's request and the resulting response.
Low latency is a good thing
because it means your users are seeing your website faster.
If something causes higher latency,
it is slowing down how quickly users can view your website.
If something causes higher latency,
it is slowing down how quickly users can view your website.
Let's move on to Local Zones.
Local Zones place AWS services like compute, storage,
database, and other services closer to end-users.
This allows for any demanding applications
that require millisecond latencies.
And remember, the lower the latency or time
between the request and response, the better.
Applications that require that kind of latency
would include things like real-time gaming.
Local Zones are extensions of AWS Regions
and provide high bandwidth
and secure connections between local workloads
and those running in the actual Region.
Edge Locations can help to reduce latency.
They aren't used to launch resources,
but instead will cache content for faster delivery to users,
and are a feature provided by the CloudFront service,
which we'll talk loads more about
when we get to content delivery and networking.
You might notice that there seem to be more Edge Locations
than there are Regions and AZs.
And you're right, there are.
Edge locations uses the AWS backbone network,
and that topic will be covered
in the same content delivery and networking section,
so put a pin in that.
Let's have our quick quiz.
I'll give you a scenario
and you'll have three seconds to decide the right answer.
Let's get started.
Our first scenario is, "You've been tasked
with ensuring that there is millisecond latency
on the latest application launched.
What can you use to ensure this?"
If you said Local Zones should be used, you are correct.
Local zones are extensions of Regions
providing millisecond latency
for things like real-time gaming.
Our last scenario is, "You need to lower latency
on a website that is available in two continents.
What can you use to do this?"
If you said that we should utilize Edge Locations,
you're correct.
As a feature of CloudFront,
Edge locations can cut latency down
by caching data already viewed.
And with that, we are ready for our exam tips.
Remember, that an Edge Location ensures low latency
by placing content closer to users.
There are more Edge Locations than Regions and AZs.
And remember, a Local Zone is an extension
of a Region that is close to your users
where Local Zone infrastructure is deployed.
That's another lesson down.
You're doing great, gurus.
I'll see you in the next lesson when you're ready.