Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on Textract, Transcribe, and Translate.
And these are a group of services
that use machine learning technology
to process and generate text.
Now they're three pretty similar sounding services,
so you'll need to understand
the differences between these three.
So Textract extracts information from documents.
Transcribe is a speech-to-text service,
and Translate is a language translation service.
So let's look at each of these
in a little bit more detail.
So Textract is all about
extracting data from documents.
It can read and process any kind of documents.
For instance: images, PDFs, tables or forms.
It's able to deal with printed or handwritten documents
and it uses optical character recognition
to read and process the documents.
For example, think about
an automated ID processing application
that's able to review driver's licenses and passports.
Or what about an intelligent expenses system
that's able to analyze invoices and review receipts,
so that you don't have the manual effort
involved in explaining what the receipts are.
Onto Amazon Transcribe,
and this is a speech to text service;
so speech goes in and text comes out.
It can deal with streamed audio
or you can upload audio files,
for instance, MP3 files.
And Transcribe is great
for generating subtitles for videos
or automatically creating meeting notes.
Onto Amazon Translate.
And this is a language translation service
and it's designed to be accurate,
and sound completely natural.
It can handle large scale translation jobs
using a single API call,
and it can quickly translate
large volumes of HTML or text content.
It supports over 70 languages
with more being added all the time
and you can customize it to recognize
your own brand names, product names
or industry terminology.
And use cases include translating
product documentation,
support documentation,
or even real time translation jobs
for customer support chat bots.
Now for the exam,
remember that these three services
use machine learning to perform
automated document processing
that helps reduce manual effort.
They sound pretty similar,
but they've got completely different use cases.
So Textract is used to extract text
and information from documents.
Transcribe is a speech-to-text service.
It takes speech as input and transcribes it to text,
and Translate is for accurate,
natural sounding language translation.
So that is it for this lesson,
and if you're ready to move on,
I'll see you in the next one.
Thank you.