Hi, and welcome back
to this lesson on AWS DataSync.
Beginning with an example.
Imagine you have 500 terabytes of data
to transfer to AWS
and you want to do it over the network.
The data could exist in your data center,
in other cloud providers,
or even in AWS storage services
in other accounts or regions.
And you want to transfer the data
to AWS services like S3, EFS, or FSX.
So object storage and file storage.
Well, you can do this using DataSync,
and it will also encrypt the data
as it transfers it over the network.
So DataSync is designed
to let you move large amounts of data.
It enables high data throughput,
it's automated, which helps avoid human error,
supports NFS or network file system,
SMB shared file systems
used by Windows servers,
and object stores as well.
And you only pay
per gigabyte of storage that you transfer.
Other potential use cases include
securely migrating all of your data into AWS,
cost effectively replicating your data using AWS Storage,
so replicating for disaster recovery purposes.
Archiving historical data to low cost AWS Storage,
for instance, if you have financial data
that needs to be archived
for a number of years,
and hybrid or multi-cloud workflows.
So situations where you need the data
to exist in your data center
or in another cloud provider,
and you also want a copy in AWS as well.
Now, AWS have recently published details
about a project they completed
with a company called Autodesk,
who provide a computer-aided design software.
And using AWS DataSync,
Autodesk were able to transfer
700 terabytes of database backups
over a 1.4 gigabit per second network link
during low usage hours over night.
The backups needed to be retained for many years,
so they were transferred to S3
and Glacier for long-term archiving.
And impressively, the project was completed in 2 1/2 months.
Pretty cool.
So for the exam,
AWS DataSync lets you securely transfer
terabytes of data to S3, EFS, or FSX.
It supports NFS, SMB, or object stores.
Data can originate on premises
in another cloud provider
or in AWS storage
in a different account or region.
And use cases include migration,
replication to low cost storage, archiving,
and hybrid or multi-cloud workflows.
Well, that's all for this lesson.
And if you're ready to move on,
please join me in the next lesson.
Thank you.