In this lesson,
we're diving deeper into Amazon VPC.
While our previous discussion was theoretical,
it's now time to see a VPC in action.
This lesson will primarily be a hands-on demo,
showcasing the main features and concepts of Amazon VPC.
Let's get started.
Remember how we described a VPC,
like our own secure isolated section of a cloud kitchen?
Well, we're going to jump into the AWS console
to see what it looks like in the actual cloud.
Get logged into your AWS account and I'll see you in there.
Okay, so I'm logged into my AWS account
and I'm going to head over to the VPC service.
I can click it here or I can head up to the search bar
and type in VPC.
I'll select the VPC service
and you should be brought to a screen that looks like this.
I currently have a couple VPCs, some subnets, route tables,
internet gateways, and what we're going
to do is you can either click on your VPCs
here in the left hand navigation,
or I'm going to click on create VPC.
And we have a few options here.
We can create a VPC only
and then manually create some other resources,
or we can click VPC and more.
And that's what we'll do for this example.
As you can see, a preview populates with kind
of a map showing
how these different resources connect to one another.
In this default option, we have our VPC
and we have four subnets
and we have two availability zones, US East 1A
and US East 1B.
And within each availability zone, we have a public subnet
and a private subnet.
And then we have a route table that connects
to both our public subnets in each availability zone.
And then we have route tables for each
of our private subnets in each availability zone.
And as you can see on the far right end of this map,
we have our internet gateway, which allows our VPC
to connect to the internet through our public subnets
and public route table.
And here at the bottom we have a VPC endpoint.
If I go back over to the left here, you can see
that we can choose our CIDR block,
which I'll leave as default.
If I scroll down a little bit, you can customize
how many availability zones you'd like.
And remember that availability zones are isolated
from one another.
So if one availability zone fails, it doesn't mean
that another availability zone will fail.
So we'll leave it at two
for higher availability in case one availability zone fails.
And then in this next section, we're able
to choose which availability zone we'd like
for each availability zone.
If I were to choose one availability zone,
then we could choose to have one public subnet
and one private subnet in each availability zone.
But since we're gonna have two,
we need two public subnets in order
to put one subnet in each availability zone.
If I scroll down further,
you can see we can customize our subnet CIDR blocks.
We'll leave those as default.
We can set up a NAT gateway if we'd like.
As of now, we have a VPC endpoint,
but I'll select none for that.
So now I'll go ahead and create the VPC.
And this should just take a few moments
and you can see all of the connections being made
and resources being created.
I'll click on view VPC,
and you can see our resource map here again.
We're gonna go ahead
and just remember these last four digits
of our VPC ID, 4916.
If I click back into your VPCs, you can see
that our VPC has been created.
So remembering that number 4916,
it will likely be different for you.
I'm going to head down to security
and I'll click on network ACLs.
As you can see, a default network ACL
has been created for our VPC.
If I go ahead and click on that, you can see
that there's already some inbound and outbound rules.
And I just wanna quickly mention here
that network access control lists or NACLs,
they operate at the subnet level and they're stateless.
So that means they don't remember.
I like to think about NACLs as a gated community.
There are guards that stand at the entrances of these gates
and they allow or do not allow people in
and out of the community.
And there's so many people within the community
that they don't necessarily remember who has come in.
So they need to have a set of inbound
and outbound rules made separately
to determine who or what can leave and enter.
And this differs from security groups which are stateful.
And as you can see,
there has been a default security group associated
with our VPC that we've created.
We have an inbound rule and we have an outbound rule.
And like I said, security groups are stateful,
which means they do remember.
Security groups operate at the instance level.
And so I like to think of this as your house
and the guards at your door do remember
who comes into your house,
and if they allow traffic in one direction,
they have to allow it back out the other direction.
And so that's sort of the difference between security groups
and network ACLs.
So that was just a really quick demo
of exploring networking services.
And so as we wrap up our hands-on exploration of Amazon VPC,
here's some key takeaways
and tips that might come in handy for the exam.
Remember when setting up a VPC,
selecting the right IP address range, creating subnets,
and making sure you have the right number
of availability zones is foundational.
And each decision you make
impacts the network's architecture and functionality.
Make sure you know the distinction
between public and private subnets.
Public subnets are accessible from the internet,
while private subnets are used
for internal resources like databases.
Understand that route tables control the flow
of traffic within the VPC
and an internet gateway is essential for a VPC
to communicate with the internet.
Also understand that security groups
are instance level security measures,
stateful and more granular.
NACLs or network access control lists operate
at the subnet level.
They're stateless
and they offer an additional layer of security.
Thanks for watching.
And keep these tips in mind as they sometimes form the basis
for many of the questions you'll encounter
on the certification exam.
Next up, you're able to get some hands-on experience
with a lab.