Hi, and welcome to this demo,
where we'll be working with the AWS CloudShell
and using the AWS Come Online Interface.
In this scenario,
you've been tossed with creating an S3 bucket
and uploading a file.
You would like to accomplish this
using the AWS CLI, running in the CloudShell,
instead of using the AWS Console.
So first of all, we're going to launch the CloudShell.
We'll use the AWS CLI to create our bucket
and upload a file.
And we're also going to review the CLI documentation,
because it's a great place to find information
when you're trying to figure out how to use the CLI.
And we'll do everything using our Cloud Playground.
So if you're ready to get started,
I'll see you in the AWS Console.
From the Console, we'll select the CloudShell
using this icon here, at the top of the screen.
Now the CloudShell is a browser-based shell
that we can use to interact with our AWS account,
using the AWS Come Online Interface.
It has the AWS CLI pre-installed and pre-configured.
So, it's the easiest way to use the CLI.
When your CloudShell is ready,
we can type AWS minus, minus version, and hit enter.
And that will show that the AWS CLI
is installed in your CloudShell terminal.
Next, let's create an S3 bucket.
To do that, type AWS S3 M-B, for make bucket,
then S3, colon,
forward slash, forward slash,
and this is where we're going to type
the name of our bucket.
I'll call it Mybucket hyphen,
and then I'm going to add some random numbers
to get a unique name.
Because all S3 buckets need to have a globally unique name.
After you've done that, hit enter.
It's made our bucket.
Now, we can type AWS S3 L-S.
And, this is going to list the buckets available
in our account, and hit Enter.
And there we go, its identified the bucket
that we just created.
Next, let's create a file and upload it to the bucket.
So type echo, open quote,
my new file, closed quote.
Then, use the redirect symbol twice.
And we're gonna redirect to a new file
called file.txt, and hit Enter.
So this command just creates a new file
with some text in it.
Type L-S, and there's our file.
Then type cat file.txt,
and that will show you the contents of our file
that we just created.
Next, we're going to upload this file to S3.
So, type AWS S3,
C-P for copy.
The name of our file, which is file.txt
Then, we need to provide the destination.
So copy your bucket name from up here.
Make sure you use this S3 notation,
and the name of your bucket.
Then, you can hit Enter.
And if its all worked, this is what you should see.
So it's uploaded our file.txt to our S3 bucket.
And now we can type AWS S3, then L-S,
the name of our bucket, and hit Enter.
And you should see the name of our file appear.
So, we've successfully created an S3 bucket,
and we've uploaded a file using the AWS CLI,
running in the CloudShell.
And then, the last thing I want to show you,
is that if you ever need to use the CLI,
and you can't remember the command syntax,
you can type in the command,
and then type Help, and hit Enter.
And it will tell you all about how to use this command.
And if I keep on pressing Enter,
to move down the Help screen,
and then come right to the end,
this is where you'll find examples.
So, examples of how to use this command.
Come right to the end, and hit the letter Q.
And that will exit out of the Help screen.
You can also view the documentation online
by searching for the AWS CLI command reference.
And we're using version two,
so make sure you select the version two command reference.
So this is where you can view the documentation online,
and it's organized by AWS service.
So that is it for this demo.
And for the exam,
remember that the AWS CloudShell
is a browser-based shell,
with the AWS CLI pre-installed.
And the AWS CLI is a command line tool
that is used to manage AWS services.
And we used it to create an S3 bucket,
and upload a file.
So that is it for this lesson.
And if you're ready to move on,
please join me for the next one. Thank you.