Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
where we'll get some hands-on experience
using Athena to query data stored in S3.
In this scenario,
you would like to use standard SQL
to query a log file that is located in S3,
and you decide to do this using Amazon Athena.
So first we're gonna configure a CloudTrail
to create some log data that we can query.
And CloudTrail is simply a service
that creates an audit log
of all user activity in our account.
So this is gonna create some data that we can work with.
Next, we need to create an S3 bucket
to store the Athena results.
And then, finally,
we'll be able to query our data using Athena.
And you can do everything using our AWS Cloud Playground.
From the console,
first search for CloudTrail.
And by activating CloudTrail,
this is just gonna give us some data that we can play with.
We can close these messages.
And don't worry about this error message,
it's not gonna affect what we're doing.
Then select Create a Trail,
and we can accept all the defaults.
The trail name will be management-events,
and it's automatically gonna create an S3 bucket
where it's going to store our data.
So now scroll down and Create Trail.
Next, search for S3.
Create Bucket.
And this bucket will be used
to store the Athena Query results.
Scroll down to bucket name,
and I'll call it my-athena-results.
And add some random numbers on the end to get a unique name.
We don't need to change anything else on this page,
so scroll down to the end.
And Create Bucket.
And now we are ready to use Athena.
So search for Athena.
And I'll open the link in a new tab.
Then, using the menu on the left,
select the Query Editor.
And before we run our first query,
we need to set up our query result location.
So select Settings, Manage,
then Browse S3.
Select your Athena results bucket.
Choose.
And then scroll down to the bottom and select Save.
So that's our query results location setup.
And now we are good to go to start querying with Athena.
So select Editor.
And this is where we're gonna type our query.
Click the query box here,
and I want you to type the following command
exactly as I do.
CREATE DATABASE athenadb.
Then scroll down to the bottom and select Run.
Then if you scroll down,
you should see a message
saying that our query has been successful.
Now, this query has just created an empty Athena database.
And then on the left-hand side under Database,
you should see that your database has appeared.
Now, this database is empty at the moment,
so let's populate it.
And first we're gonna create a new table
and tell Athena where to find the data
to populate the table.
And I've already prepared the SQL command
that we are going to use.
So you can just copy and paste the command.
In the resources for this lesson,
you'll find a link to this GitHub repository,
and this is where you're gonna find
the commands for this lesson.
I'll go into the Athena demo folder,
and it's this file, Athena_Query_Create_Table.txt.
So I'll select the file,
and then we can use this icon here
to copy the raw file.
Back in Athena,
hit the plus sign on the Query Editor to create a new query.
And paste our code in here.
Now, this is a really long piece of SQL code.
All it does is create our table,
and the table is gonna be called cloudtrail_logs.
And then down here,
it's creating all the different attributes
that are gonna be stored in our table.
And remember, our data contains a record
of all the user activity in our account.
So it's gonna be things like user identity,
account ID,
event time, event source,
AWS region, et cetera.
All the kind of information that you'd expect to see
in an audit log.
So these are all gonna be the attributes of our table.
But before we run this query,
come down to the end.
And then right at the bottom,
this is where we need to specify the location of our data.
So we need to tell Athena where to find the data
that we want it to query.
And this is gonna be our S3 bucket
where CloudTrail is storing the data.
And to find that,
head back to the S3 console,
select the cloudtrail-logs bucket,
then go into the AWSLogs folder,
and then into the next folder,
which is named after your account number.
And your folder structure should look like this.
So first we've got the name of your bucket,
then AWSLogs,
and then your account number.
So then you can just copy the S3 URI using this button.
And this URI is what we use to reference the location in S3.
Then come back to our Athena Query Editor,
and we need to replace this section of the query
with your URI.
After you've done that,
it should look like this.
So here's my bucket name,
followed by the AWSLogs folder,
followed by my account number.
And then make sure
you don't remove this forward slash at the end.
After you've done that, hit Run.
And if it's worked correctly,
you should see a message at the bottom like this
saying query successful.
And if it wasn't successful this time,
just make sure that you specified your location correctly,
because if you don't get this part right,
then Athena will not be able to find your data.
So now under the Tables section on the left,
you should see there's a new table called cloudtrail_logs.
Expand the table,
and here's all the data attributes
that our query just created.
And now we can go ahead and query the data using Athena.
So come back up to the top,
hit the plus sign to create our third query.
And I've prepared this query for you already.
It's in the GitHub repository.
Come back to Athena Demo,
and it's in the file called Athena_Query.txt.
Once again, I'll copy the raw file using this icon,
head back to my Query Editor,
and paste it in here.
And this is just a really simple SQL query
that selects the user identity ARN,
event name, source IP address,
and event time from our cloudtrail_logs table.
Scroll down and select Run.
And then if you scroll further down,
you can see the results of the query.
And here they are.
So first of all, it selected the ARN, the user identity,
the event name, then the source IP address,
and the event time
from the data in our cloudtrail_logs table.
So that is Athena.
It's pretty simple to use.
And if you know how to use SQL,
then you can run all sorts of queries
on data that is stored in S3.
So it's kind of like turning S3 into a database.
And for the exam,
be aware that Athena is an interactive query service
for data stored in S3.
It allows you to query data stored in S3
using standard SQL queries.
It's serverless,
and you don't need to configure any infrastructure
to use Athena.
And use cases include querying log files
like we did just now,
or generating reports from S3 data.
Well, that is it for this lesson,
and if you're ready to move on,
I will see you in the next lesson, thank you.