Hi, and welcome back,
to this demo of Amazon Rekognition.
Let's jump straight into a scenario.
Imagine that you need to analyze some images
to identify text, objects, and people.
Well, that is exactly
what Rekognition is designed to help with.
So you decide to do this using Amazon Rekognition.
Let's first explore the Rekognition console
and see what options are available.
Next, we can try uploading some images
and using Rekognition to analyze the images.
Now, Rekognition is not enabled in the cloud playground.
So to try this out yourself, you'll need
to use your own AWS free tier account.
But if you can't do that, don't worry.
You will get to understand what it's all about just
by watching along with me.
So let's get started.
From the console,
I'll search for Rekognition.
In the left hand menu,
we can see there are a few different demos available.
So we can use Rekognition to label elements in an image,
identify image properties, perform image moderation,
so to detect offensive content, perform facial analysis,
facial comparison, face liveness,
and that's when Rekognition can tell you whether the face
it's seeing is a live face
or if it's just an image of a face.
Celebrity Rekognition,
identify when text appears in an image
and detect personal protective equipment like face
covers or head covers.
So I'm gonna select celebrity Rekognition,
and this is designed to recognize celebrities
in a provided image.
So first of all, let me find an image I can use,
and I'm gonna search for an image of my favorite actor.
And there he is, Idris Elba.
So I'm just gonna download that image,
then come back to Rekognition
and I'll upload my own image,
select the image, and there we go.
It's recognized him as Idris Elba.
Now you might be wondering what use is this?
Well, a UK TV channel actually used this service
a few years ago when we had a royal wedding.
As you can imagine, lots
of celebrities were invited to the wedding.
The whole thing was televised.
And the TV channel created an app that viewers could use
to help them identify the celebrities
as they arrived at the wedding.
Now, the wedding guests included people like George Clooney,
Elton John, Serena Williams, and Oprah,
and you probably don't need an app
to help identify those people,
but there were also plenty of other not so famous faces
that the app was able to identify, for instance,
politicians, and other public figures.
So that is celebrity Rekognition.
Next, let's take a look at text in image.
So I'll select text in image.
They have some sample images down here
that you can have a play around with,
and I'm gonna upload my own one as well.
It's analyzing, and there we go.
It's identified the text that appears in the image.
And I can use this same photo
to show you label detection as well.
So I'm gonna select label detection.
Here's their example.
Let me upload my own image.
And there we go.
It's identified my dog Ralphie as a dog.
And what I think is funny about this is
that it's only 99.9% sure.
And if I select, Show more, scroll down.
It's over 50% sure that this is a police dog,
which is quite worrying because I don't really think he's
gonna be a very good police dog.
But it's also identified the grass, a tree,
and other elements in the image.
Well, that is Rekognition.
And for the exam, know that Rekognition is used for image
and video analysis.
It can perform content moderation
to identify harmful
or offensive images, identity verification, for instance,
if you want to identify celebrities
or for identification purposes.
And it can also be used to identify objects
and text in images.
Well, that's all for this demo.
And if you're ready to move on,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.