Hi, and welcome back
to this lesson on Amazon Polly.
Now, Polly is a service that uses deep learning
to generate realistic natural sounding speech
from text that you provide,
and deep learning is just a type of artificial intelligence
that lets computers learn how to process data
in a similar way to the human brain.
With Polly, you can provide the text
in a variety of different languages.
The resulting audio can be streamed, saved or downloaded,
for instance, you can download it as an mp3 file.
And Polly can be used to add natural sounding speech
to your applications,
so think of a blogging website
that wants to offer an audio version of their content.
Well, you can do that with Amazon Polly.
But the quickest way to understand Polly
is to actually use it, and it's fun to use as well.
So let's jump straight into the demo.
In this scenario, each year, the CEO of your company
sends an email to all staff
thanking them for all their hard work.
This year, you'd like to provide
an audio version of the email
so that the sales reps can listen to the message
while they're driving, and you decide to use Polly
to generate natural sounding speech from the email.
So after navigating to Polly,
we'll select neural text-to-speech
and that's gonna give us the most natural sounding speech.
We'll provide the input text that we want Polly to read,
and after Polly has processed our text
we can listen to the results
and note that we can select a voice
and the language that we want to use as well,
and we also have the option to save the resulting file
to S3 or download it as an mp3.
And we'll be doing everything using the
AWS Cloud Playground,
so if you'd like to join me in the AWS console, we'll begin.
In the Console I'll search for Polly.
Using the menu on the left hand side, select text-to-speech.
Make sure that neural is selected,
and this option produces more natural and human-like speech.
Down here we can select the language that we want to use,
and I'm gonna select English British.
Next, I'll select a voice and I'm gonna use Amy.
Then down here, this is where we can add the text
that we want Polly to read out.Demo-Using-Amazon-Polly

So I'm gonna get rid of the sample text,
and my text is gonna be the end
of year message from our company, CEO,
so I'll type the message in here.
After adding our text, we can then listen to the result.
So we can listen using this button here,
we can save to S3 or download.
So let's go ahead and listen to the result.
Dear Staff, while it's that time of year again
when I wish you all happy Holidays,
thank you for all your hard work,
and as an extra reward this year
I have decided to give you all an extra five days vacation.
Keep up the good work, and thanks again.
All the best, your CEO, Amy.
Pretty good, hey?
Well, I'm not gonna complain about
an extra five days vacation,
so thanks very much, Amy.
And for the exam, just remember that Polly
is a service that uses deep learning
to add natural sounding speech to your applications.
Use cases could be to have Polly read a blog post,
a short story, or read the contents of a website
to help people who are visually impaired.
You provide the text and Polly will generate speech
that can be streamed, downloaded, or saved to S3.
And Polly supports a variety
of different languages and voices.
Well, that is all for this demo
and if you're ready to move on,
please join me in the next one. Thank you.