Hello and welcome back to this demo of X-Ray,
where we'll be exploring how X-Ray can be used
to monitor the performance of an application.
Now, X-Ray is a tool that helps developers to analyze
and debug distributed applications
that are made up of multiple different components.
It allows you to troubleshoot
the root cause of performance issues and errors,
and provides a visualization
of your application's underlying components.
In this scenario, you would like to understand
how X-Ray can be used to monitor performance
and health of a distributed application.
You decide to install a sample application
that uses several AWS services.
So first,
we'll be installing a sample tic-tac-toe application
using CloudFormation.
We'll play a game of tic-tac-toe,
and that's gonna generate some performance data
that we can take a look at later.
After that, we can use X-Ray
to view the application performance and health,
and we'll do everything using the C*loud Playground.
So if you're ready to get started with X-Ray,
please join me in the AWS console.
From the Console search for X-Ray.
Select, X-ray,
and it's gonna take us to the CloudWatch Console.
On the right hand side select, Set Up Demo App
and it's going to create a sample application for us
using CloudFormation.
So select, Create Sample Application with CloudFormation
and CloudFormation is gonna create the entire stack for us.
So, everything needed to run the application.
It's pre-populated everything,
so we don't need to change any of the settings.
And down here is the reference
to our CloudFormation template.
So we can go ahead and hit Next.
All the settings are pre-populated,
so scroll down to the bottom,
Hit Next.
Once again, scroll down to the bottom and hit Next.
On this page we can review the options,
so just scroll down to the bottom.
We need to check this box
to say that we acknowledge that identity
and access management resources might be created,
and then hit Submit.
Now, it's going to take a few minutes
for the CloudFormation stack to be ready,
because it's creating a lot of things for us
in the background.
So it's gonna create an EC2 instance,
an Elastic Container Service cluster,
DynamoDB tables, Elastic Load Balancer.
Networking components like, routing table and subnets,
an SNS topic, and identity and access management roles.
And it's creating everything needed
to run this distributed application,
so expect it to take up to 10 minutes
to complete everything.
And you can refresh the status using this button.
So while we're waiting,
now is a good time to step away from the screen,
go and have a cup of tea or coffee,
and come back in 10 minutes
and we should be good to continue.
(digital tones)
After the stack is completed, select the Outputs tab
and this is where you'll find the URL
for the load balancer of our application.
So, right click and open the link in a new tab,
and there is our application.
To play the game, select Create.
Rules is gonna be tic-tac-toe.
Create, and Play.
And here is our game.
And it's probably the most basic computer game
the world has ever seen,
but I can't play tic-tac-toe by myself
so I've invited my husband Rob to play against me.
Hello, everybody.
00:04:08.430 --> 00:04:09.780
00:04:09.780 --> 00:04:11.250
00:04:11.250 --> 00:04:14.010
00:04:14.010 --> 00:04:16.710
00:04:16.710 --> 00:04:19.890
90
91
92
93
94
95














































































