Hi, and welcome back
to this demo of AWS Cloud9.
In this scenario, you are a developer
and you need an IDE or integrated development environment
that lets you write, run, and debug your code.
You also want it
to support the most popular programming languages
like JavaScript, Python, Ruby, and C++,
and it needs to let you run AWS CLI commands as well.
Now Cloud9 is an integrated development environment or IDE
that you can use inside your browser.
So that means that you can write, run, and debug code
without having to install anything
on your own local machine.
So first of all, we are going
to create our own Cloud9 environment.
Next, we'll explore the Cloud9 code editor
and we'll write some code together,
and then we'll also try running some AWS CLI commands,
and we can do everything using the cloud playground.
So if you're ready to get your hands dirty with Cloud9,
please join me in the AWS console.
From the console, search for Cloud9.
Next, select Create environment.
The environment name will be My-IDE.
Then scroll down, Environment type
is gonna be New EC2 instance.
Instance type will be t3.small.
Under Platform, select the Amazon Linux option.
Under Network settings, we can stick with the defaults.
Then scroll to the bottom and hit Create.
Now under the hood,
your Cloud9 environment is basically a Linux server.
It has the AWS CLI pre-configured,
so that avoids having to install the CLI,
and it includes other popular tools
that developers commonly use, including runtimes
for popular programming languages like Python and Node.js,
and development tools like Git and Docker.
Now it does take a few moments
to finish installing everything, so just be patient
and your environment will be ready soon.
(light electronic chirping)
After the environment is created, we can connect to it.
So select Open,
and here is our Cloud9 environment.
To get started, let's create a file.
So select Create File, then type print,
open bracket, open quote, Hello Cloud Gurus,
then close quote and close bracket.
We're then gonna save our file.
So select File, Save As,
and the file name is hello.py, and hit Save.
So that is our code written.
Let's now run the code and check that it works as expected.
In the lower part of the screen, you'll see a terminal.
And I'm just gonna move that up the screen
to make it easier.
Select your terminal,
and then type ls, and hit Enter.
And there's our file.
Next, type python.
Then type the letter h, and hit the Tab key,
and it will auto complete with the name of your file.
Then hit Enter to run your code.
And if it all works, this is what you should see.
And there we go, we've written some Python code
and we've run our code to test that it works.
Hopefully that does work for you.
And if it doesn't work,
just make sure you've written your code exactly
as I have up here.
Now Cloud9 also includes the AWS CLI pre-installed.
So let's just check that that's working as well.
In your terminal, type aws s3 mb, for make bucket,
then s3://, and a unique bucket name.
I'll call mine, my-code,
and then I'm gonna add some random numbers on the end.
Then hit Enter.
So it's created our bucket successfully.
Next, type aws s3 cp, for copy.
Then the name of our file, and the name of our bucket.
And I'm just gonna copy and paste it from up here.
And hit Enter.
And there we go, we've successfully used the AWS CLI
to create a bucket and upload our file.
So that is Cloud9.
And for the exam, remember that Cloud9
is a browser-based integrated development environment,
and it lets developers write, run, and debug their code.
It comes with many pre-installed tools,
including the AWS CLI,
and support for the most popular programming languages
like JavaScript, Python, Ruby, and C++,
as well as development tools like Git and Docker.
Well, that's all for this demo,
and if you're ready to continue,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.