Hi and welcome back to part two of the summary
of the development messaging and deployment section,
including my exam tips beginning with SQS,
which is a distributed message queuing system.
It allows us to decouple the components of an application
so they're independent from each other,
and it's the most commonly used mechanism
for implementing loosely coupled applications.
It's pull based, not push-based,
which means that consumers pull the messages from the queue
rather than messages being pushed out.
Understand the differences
between standard cues and FIFO cues.
So 
With FIFO queues, the first in first out message order
is strictly preserved.
Messages are delivered once only. There are no duplicates.
This is great for banking transactions
that need to happen in a strict order
and you don't want any duplicates.
With short polling, a response is returned immediately
even if there are no messages in the queue.
There's a cost per response even when the response is empty.
Whereas with long polling,
the consumer periodically polls the queue
and the queue only returns a response
either when a message is in the queue
or when the long polling timeout is reached.
This is the most cost-effective option
and it saves you money
because you don't pay for empty responses.
And for this reason,
long polling is generally the preferred option.
So given a choice, go for long polling.
Simple email service allows you
to send richly formatted HTML emails from your applications.
So think marketing campaigns
or the confirmation of an order,
not to be confused with SNS,
which allows you to send SMS text messages
and plain text emails.
So SNS is plain text email only.
If you've got pictures or different fonts,
colors and layouts like you would in a marketing email,
then you need SES
and it's very important to remember the differences.
Event Bridge is a service
that lets you build event-driven systems
and events are state changes generated by services like EC2.
For example, if an EC2 instance shuts down,
rules match events,
and then route them to the correct target.
And targets respond by taking some action,
like sending an SNS notification.
And you can also configure scheduled events,
which lets you schedule and action in advance.
For instance, if you want to run a process once a week
or once a month.
Step functions are a great way
to visualize your serverless application.
They automatically trigger and track each step in a workflow
and they log the state of each step
so you can track what went wrong and where.
Cloud formation is a service
that lets you deploy AWS resources
using an infrastructure as code approach.
Resources are defined using a template
written in YAML or JSON,
and this allows you to quickly provision AWS resources
in a consistent way with fewer errors.
Elastic Beanstalk is a service
that deploys and scales your web applications,
including the web application server platform
like Apache Tomcat or IIS.
It provisions all the AWS resources for you.
For example, EC2 instances, RDS databases,
S3 storage, elastic load balances, and auto scaling as well.
It supports technologies like java, .NET, PHP, et cetera,
and it can also take care of operating system
and application server updates
and monitoring metrics and health checks are also included.
X-Ray gives you a service map
that provides an end-to-end view of requests
as they travel through your application.
And this information can be used to troubleshoot
connectivity and performance issues.
Well, that's all for this lesson.
Well done for completing this section of the course,
and if you are ready to continue,
we'll see you in the next section.
Thank you.