Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on Amazon managed streaming for Apache Kafka, or MFK.
Now when we talk about streaming data,
it is of course a continuous stream
of small records or events, generated by thousands
of devices, websites, and applications.
So there's no beginning or end to this kind of data.
And it's a continuous flow of data,
that keeps on coming for the lifetime of the application.
And use cases include things like streaming log files
to capture events and respond in real time,
building customer profiles, using transaction data
or clickstream analysis, and applications
that continuously analyze and react to streaming data.
Now, you might be wondering what is Apache Kafka?
Well, it's a widely used open source technology
that is used for building
real-time data streaming pipelines.
It's able to process streams of events
from hundreds of event sources.
And, after an event is received, data consumers
read the data and process it
in the order that it was produced.
Now, Apache Kafka clusters can be difficult
and time consuming to set up.
So with MSK, AWS does the heavy lifting for you,
including provisioning the cluster,
configuring Apache Kafka, managing upgrades and patches,
configuring monitoring, replacing unhealthy nodes,
and scaling up and down when needed.
And if you're thinking that this service
sounds very similar to Kinesis, then you'd be right
because both handle streaming data.
However, MSK is for customers who would like
to use Apache Kafka for their streaming.
So it's providing another option
for people who want to use Kafka,
but they want the convenience of a managed service.
Let's review an example use case.
Think of an application that's designed
to track and analyze stock market data in real time.
Data producers generate the stock price data,
which is sent to MSK in real time.
Data consumers consume the data from the stream
and then process it in the order that it was produced.
And in this example, it's an investment advice application
that takes the data, processes it in some way
to give you investment advice.
For example, it could use this data
to generate graphs, create reports,
and identify industries to invest in.
So for the exam, just know that Amazon MSK
is a fully managed Apache Kafka service,
it can process streams of events
from hundreds of event sources, it's used to build
real time data streaming applications.
And my example use case is an application
that's used to track and analyze
stock market data in real time.
Well, that is it for this lesson.
And if you're ready to continue,
I'll see you in the next one.
Thank you.