Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
where we'll explore the AWS Transfer Family.
Beginning with an example.
Imagine that you have a group of partners.
They might be customers
or some external third party that you're working with,
and this third party needs to transfer some files directly
to you and save them to your AWS storage.
Well, to do this, you will need a file transfer solution
and that's exactly what the AWS Transfer Family provides.
So with the AWS Transfer Family, you get business
to business file transfer using protocols like
SFTP, AS2, FTPS,
and FTP and files can be transferred into
and out of AWS storage like S3 or EFS,
for example, imagine that you work for an investment bank
and each day you receive data
and reports relating to stock market activity from a number
of different partners.
While the AWS Transfer Family is an option
that you might use to handle these file transfers.
And in this example, the partners are using SFTP PUT
to send the files to a remote location, which is our S3
or Elastic File System storage.
And of course the files can be transferred either way.
So if we have files stored in S3
or Elastic File System that we want to allow third parties
to transfer out, for example, they can use SFTP GET
to transfer the files.
Now the real benefit of using Transfer Family is
that you don't need to build
and manage a secure file transfer solution yourself.
So AWS will do the heavy lifting for you.
It's highly available and scalable
as you'd expect from an AWS service.
And you can use existing tools like WinSCP,
FileZilla, CyberDuck, LFTP,
and OpenSSH,
and these are all commonly used file transfer tools.
It supports common protocols that you might've heard about
or even used yourself.
So SFTP, which is the Secure Shell file transfer protocol
that uses SSH Security
and Authentication, AS2 which stands
for Applicability statement two, and that uses HTTP
and HTTPS, FTPS is the file transfer protocol over SSL,
which uses industry standard
TLS to encrypt the traffic.
And it also supports standard FTP,
which is the file transfer protocol.
It transfers files in clear text without encryption.
And for that reason I don't recommend that one
because all of the other options encrypt your traffic.
But don't worry, you don't need
to memorize the details about each protocol,
just know that these are common file transfer protocols
and if they're mentioned in the exam, I want you
to think AWS Transfer family.
So for the exam, just remember
that AWS Transfer Family is all about file sharing
and transfer with external parties.
External parties can transfer files out of your storage,
for instance, using SFTP GET
or they can transfer files in, for instance, using SFTP PUT
and multiple commonly used file transfer
protocols are supported.
While that is it for this one,
and if you're ready to continue,
please join me in the next lesson.
Thank you.