Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on Kinesis Data Firehose, also known as Kinesis Firehose.
Now, Firehose allows you to capture, transform,
and load data streams into AWS data stores,
enabling near real-time analytics
using business intelligence tools.
So this is all about capturing, transforming,
and loading the data.
It's easy to use and dynamically adjusts the resources
to handle varying data volumes, so it scales automatically.
You get real-time processing, so it processes
and delivers data within 60 seconds for timely insights.
You can transform the data, customize it,
and enhance it using Lambda
before you load it into permanent storage.
And it includes monitoring,
so you've got integrated monitoring with CloudWatch,
as well as automatic error retries if something goes wrong.
So let's review an example.
Here's our data producers,
and they're producing data that's being collected
by Kinesis Firehose.
Optionally, we can perform some transformation using Lambda.
Let's say, for example,
we wanna change the format of our data.
Now there's no data retention within Firehose.
So after processing or transforming,
if we want to store the data permanently,
then we can load it into permanent storage.
For instance, we can save it to S3, to Redshift,
or to Opensearch.
And with Kinesis Data Firehose, there are no shards.
It doesn't retain the data, not even temporarily.
There's no consumers.
And after the data is loaded into its final destination,
you can perform analytics using business intelligence tools.
Use cases for Kinesis Data Firehose include:
real-time analytics, data lake feeding,
so loading streaming data into a data lake,
and a data lake is simply a large scale data repository,
log data management, and IoT data integration.
So for the exam, be sure to know that Kinesis Data Streams
capture and store streaming video and data,
whereas Kinesis Data Firehose
captures, transforms and loads data continuously
into data stores.
So this is all about transforming and then loading the data.
Well, that's it for this lesson,
and if you're ready to move on,
I'll see you in the next one.
Thank you.