Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on AWS Data Exchange.
Now, AWS Data Exchange
is a service that allows you to securely exchange
and use data that's provided by third parties
on a subscription basis,
and they provide the data
in the form of data products
available from a searchable catalog.
The data format is anything that can be stored in S3.
For instance, some of the most common formats are CSV,
Parquet format, or image files.
Now, there's over 3,500 data products available
from a range of categories including financial services,
healthcare, weather, manufacturing,
and telecommunications.
Subscriptions last between one and 36 months in duration,
and many providers make data products available for free.
And it's designed to be a single central place
to find and exchange data.
You can subscribe to data sets or data products
provided by vendors through the AWS Marketplace.
For instance, retail data from companies like Experian,
Equifax, or MasterCard.
And let's say, for example,
you want to analyze customer spending patterns
based on geographic locations,
when you can get that kind of data,
anonymized, of course,
from one of the data products
that's available from MasterCard in AWS Data Exchange.
And this data can be used for analytics,
machine learning workloads,
and for decision making.
You can also create and publish your own data products
so that other users can subscribe using AWS Data Exchange.
And you might be wondering,
why should I use this service
when there's so many other ways to exchange data?
Well, as a data publisher,
you can publish data simultaneously
to all of your customers at once.
And as a subscriber,
you can find lots of different types of data available
and you just paid the subscription fees
through your AWS account.
And for the exam,
know that AWS Data Exchange
lets you securely exchange and use data
that's provided by third parties on a subscription basis.
The data products are available from a variety of suppliers,
including financial services, healthcare, weather,
manufacturing, and telecommunications.
And this data can be used for analytics,
machine learning workloads, and for decision making.
And an example use case
is to analyze customer spending patterns
based on geographic location
using data products provided by companies like MasterCard,
Experian, and Equifax.
And you can also create your own data products
so you can publish your own product
and let other accounts subscribe.
Well, that is all for this lesson,
and if you'd like to continue,
I will see you in the next one, thank you.