Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on database migration tools.
And we'll begin with the AWS Database Migration Service,
and it's also known as DMS.
Now, the Database Migration Service is used
to migrate your database and analytics workloads to AWS,
and workloads could be on-premises,
running on EC2 instances, or in RDS.
Now, imagine that you have an Oracle database,
and it could be in your own data center
or running on EC2 instances.
Well, you can use the database migration service
to migrate this database, for instance, to RDS for Oracle,
which is a fully managed Oracle database running in AWS.
But what if you don't even want to use Oracle anymore?
And instead, you want to migrate
to a different type of database?
Well, you can do that using a service
called the AWS Schema Conversion Tool,
and the Schema Conversion Tool simply converts
from one database schema to another.
For instance, let's say your original database is Oracle.
Well, you can use the schema conversion tool
to migrate and convert the data to another schema
like AWS Aurora for MySQL.
Let's take a look at some more examples of what's possible.
So with the Schema Conversion Tool, we can convert
a MySQL database to RDS for MySQL running on AWS.
SQL Server could be converted to Aurora for PostgreSQL
running in AWS.
MongoDB could be converted to DocumentDB in AWS,
and Oracle can also be converted to RedShift running in AWS.
But the main thing to remember
is that the Schema Conversion Tool
is a tool that converts your database
from one type of database to another type of database.
And they're basically trying to make it easy for you
to migrate your database workloads to AWS.
And for the exam, just understand
that the Database Migration Service migrates databases
and analytics workloads to AWS,
and you can migrate from EC2, on-premises systems,
or even RDS, whereas the Schema conversion tool
converts from one type of database to another,
like from Oracle to Aurora MySQL, MySQL to RDS for MySQL,
or SQL Server to Aurora PostgreSQL.
So it is basically converting the database
to a different database technology or schema.
Well, that is all for this lesson,
and if you're ready to continue,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.