Hi, and welcome back to this lesson,
which is going to introduce
Simple Notification Service, or SNS.
Now, SNS is a service that enables you to easily set up,
operate, and send notifications.
The type of notifications that it supports
are SMS text message or email.
And if I check my smartphone right now,
over the past few days,
I've received a few automated SMS notifications.
So there's one from the car repair people letting me know
that my car is now booked in for a repair,
and I've got some marketing messages,
one about a new product launch from a skincare brand
that I use, and a message giving me
25% off my favorite coffee.
And these are all examples of the kind of messages
that you can send using SNS.
So messages sent from an application
can be immediately delivered to subscribers like you and me,
or to other applications.
Now, SNS uses a pub-sub model,
which means publish and subscribe.
Applications publish or push messages to a topic,
whereas subscribers receive messages from the topic.
And a topic is simply an access point,
allowing recipients to subscribe to
and receive identical copies of the same notification.
For example, after ordering a pizza from World Pizza,
customers are notified with an estimated delivery time
for their order, and they could receive an email,
an SMS, or even both.
Another use case could be that if something goes wrong
in the World Pizza application,
let's say an EC2 instance crashes,
an alert can be sent to CloudWatch,
which is a service used to monitor the health
of your EC2 instances, and in turn,
CloudWatch can use SNS to send an email
to the application support team at World Pizza.
And if you're not familiar with CloudWatch yet, don't worry,
we'll be learning all about how CloudWatch can be used
to monitor your systems later in the course.
But for now, the main thing that I want you to take away
is that SNS allows you to send or push notifications,
for instance, SMS text messages and emails.
It uses a pub-sub model,
and subscribers must subscribe to a topic
in order to receive the notifications.
And a topic is simply an access point,
allowing subscribers to receive the notifications.
Well, that is it for this lesson,
and if you're ready to move on,
please join me in the next one, thank you.