Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on Amazon Comprehend.
And Comprehend is a service
that uses natural language processing
and machine learning to process text.
Natural language processing
is a way for computers to analyze,
understand and derive meaning from language.
And this allows you to discover insights,
meaning and connections within your text data.
For instance, you can use Comprehend
to extract meaning from documents,
customer interactions, reviews,
emails, support messages or social media feeds.
But what kind of things can it discover?
Well, it can perform sentiment analysis
on social media feeds or customer support interactions
so you can find out how customers feel
about your product or service.
It can be used to identify the language
of the provided text or analyze a set of documents
to discover the primary topics.
Now, the most common use cases for Amazon comprehend
include voice of customer analytics.
So you can understand and gauge
whether customer sentiment is positive,
neutral or negative or mixed
based on the feedback that you receive
from customer support calls,
emails and social media.
You can use it to provide a better search experience
by indexing key phrases, sentiment and key entities.
This enables you to focus the search
on intent and context
instead of just basic keywords,
so enabling customers to search more intelligently.
And you can also use it
for knowledge management and discovery,
so you can analyze and organize
a collection of documents by topic,
and you can then use these topics
to serve relevant and personalized content
for your customers.
So for the exam,
know that Comprehend uses natural language processing
to process text, discover key phrases,
topics and languages,
perform sentiment analysis,
and provide intelligence search
that is focused on intent and context
instead of just basic keywords.
And Comprehend is all about reading
and understanding your text data,
and it can be used with documents,
customer interactions, reviews,
emails, support messages and social media feeds.
So that's all for this lesson
and if you'd like to continue,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.