Hi, and welcome back to this lesson,
which is going to introduce the AWS Snow Family.
Imagine that you have large amounts of data
over 10 terabytes or more stored in your data center,
and you would like to migrate that data into AWS
as part of your Cloud transformation.
Well, it's gonna take a long time
to transfer everything over the internet,
and that is where the Snow Family comes in.
Now the Snow Family are physical devices
designed to securely and efficiently transfer large amounts
of data to AWS.
And you would typically use these devices
when your network bandwidth can't handle
an online migration efficiently,
either because the amount of data is so great
it would take too long or overload the network,
or it could be that there simply is no consistent network
in the location that you're operating in.
The idea is that you install the device,
in this example, we're using the Snowball,
and the Snowball gets installed locally in your data center.
You then transfer your data to the Snowball
and then ship the Snowball device to AWS
so that the data can be uploaded to AWS storage
of your choice.
So this is basically a data transfer solution.
Now with the Snow Family,
there are a few different variations to know about,
and Snowball is a great option
if you've got at least 10 terabytes of data to migrate.
And it's basically a big box full of discs
that you connect to your network
and copy the data onto the device
before shipping it back to AWS.
And I found a picture of one online,
so that you can see exactly what this thing looks like.
And there it is AWS Snowball.
Moving on, the Snowball Edge is a great device
if you've got at least 10 terabytes of data to migrate,
but in addition, you also need
to perform some processing on the data.
So Snowball Edge also provides Onboard Compute Resources
that allow you to process your data.
So if you've got a complex use case,
where you need to migrate a large amount of storage,
but you also need compute capability,
then pick Snowball Edge over a Snowball.
And here's a picture of a Snowball Edge.
The next option is Snowmobile.
And this is basically a shipping container full of discs
that is towed by a truck.
And this is a great option
if you've got more than 10 petabytes of data to migrate.
So this option is for really large data sets.
Now I really wanted to find you an image
and I actually had to search extremely hard for it,
but I did find this video on the AWS website
so you can see it in action.
And then finally, we are going from the largest
to the smallest, which is Snowcone.
And this is a small portable, military grade disc device.
The capacity is either eight terabytes of HDD hard disc
or 14 terabytes of SSD Solid State Disc.
It weighs in at under five pounds, so it fits in a mailbox
or in a backpack.
And it's used to migrate data from locations
that don't have a proper data center at all,
or any reliable networking, for instance, military bases.
And here's the Snowcone image that I found.
It's standing here next to a water bottle for scale.
So you can see that this device is pretty small
and it looks like it's about the size of my yoga block.
Now for the exam, just remember the four different options
that are available and what they're used for.
So there's the basic Snowball,
used if you have 10 terabytes or more to migrate.
Snowball Edge is for when you have 10 terabytes or more,
but you need the device to also process the data
before it goes to AWS.
Snowmobile is the shipping container full
of discs getting towed by a truck,
and this is for massive data sets, 10 petabytes or more,
and then going from the largest to the smallest option,
the cute little Snowcone.
It's so small, you can even fit it in a backpack.
It's portable, military grade,
holds up to 14 terabytes,
and this one is used to migrate data from locations
that do not have a proper data center like military bases.
And the Snow Family is essentially a data transfer solution.
Well, that is it for this lesson,
and if you're ready to move on,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.