Hi, and welcome back
to this lesson on application migration service.
Let's begin with an example.
Imagine you have a bunch of applications
that you want to migrate to AWS.
Well, you can simplify the migration
by using application migration service,
which lets you migrate your applications
to AWS from physical servers,
virtual servers running on VMware
or Microsoft Hyper-V.
It also supports migrating applications
from other cloud providers,
and you can even use it to migrate EC2 instances
between AWS regions or between AWS accounts.
Now it automatically converts your source servers
from physical, virtual, or cloud infrastructure
to run natively on AWS.
It can also be used to run tests
to make sure that everything's working
before you cut over to the new environment.
And this is what's known
as a lift and shift migration approach
because the application is simply migrated as is,
and it's not altered in any way or redesigned or refactored.
How it works is, first of all,
you install the AWS replication agent
on each application server that you want to migrate.
The application migration service
performs continuous replication
of the source servers to the destination servers in AWS,
and of course, the traffic is encrypted
to keep all of your data private.
While the replication is happening,
you can continue to use your systems normally,
and there's no performance impact.
You pay for the AWS infrastructure that you build,
but the application migration service,
including the data replication element,
is free to use for up to 90 days.
And after that,
they're gonna charge you for using the service.
But most people find
that their application is fully replicated
and migrated within the 90 day period,
making the application migration service free to use.
So what else is great about it?
Well, it's automated,
so you can avoid doing things manually,
which is always a good thing.
The same process can be used
for a range of operating systems,
and both Windows and Linux are supported.
For the exam,
just remember that the application migration service
is an automated lift and shift service,
so it automatically migrates applications to AWS
without modifying them in any way.
The AWS replication agent is installed on the source server
and replicates everything to a new server in AWS,
and you can use it to migrate applications
that are running on physical
or virtual servers in your data center,
in other cloud providers
or in other AWS accounts or regions.
Well, that is all for this lesson,
and if you'd like to move on,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.