Hi, and welcome back to this lesson,
which is going to introduce AWS Glue.
Now Glue is a serverless data preparation
and integration service.
It discovers and catalogs your data
and performs ETL, Extract, Transform, and Load.
The data could be stored in S3, DynamoDB,
in RDS, Redshift,
or it could even be streamed data ingested
in real-time using Kinesis.
AWS Glue is then used to discover and categorize
and then transform your data.
For instance, clean, remove duplicates, or enrich the data
and then load it into another service,
like RDS, Athena, S3, or Redshift.
And using a service like AWS Glue to extract, transform,
and load your data allows you to easily use your data
for analytics and machine learning.
Let's take a look at an example of using Glue
to create a centralized data catalog.
Imagine you have different types of data,
stored in a few different locations.
Well, Glue can use a crawler to make sense of your data
and classifies it to determine a schema for your data.
It then creates metadata tables in a data catalog.
Now, metadata is simply data about data.
So in this case,
we might want to catalog the type or format of data.
So you can use AWS Glue
to manage the metadata in this central repository,
and you can then access the data catalog
to support ETL and analytics.
Another example is joining data for a data warehouse.
Imagine you have clickstream data in RDS,
and customer data stored in S3.
Well, you can use AWS Glue to join and enrich your data
and then load the results into Redshift
so that it can be queried by your applications.
So it's performing extract and transform
before loading the data into its final destination,
where it can be used for analytics.
So for the exam,
be aware that AWS Glue is used to prepare your data
for analytics and machine learning.
It crawls your data and creates the data catalog,
which is the central repository containing the metadata,
for instance, the type or format of your data.
After the data catalog is created,
it can extract data from various sources, transform it,
for instance, categorize it, clean it,
remove duplicates, or even join multiple datasets.
After the data is transformed,
it can then be loaded into other AWS services,
like RDS, Redshift, S3, or Athena,
for use by analytics applications and machine learning.
Well, that's all for this lesson,
and if you'd like to continue,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.