Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on Application Discovery Service.
Imagine that you have a bunch of applications and databases
that you want to migrate to AWS,
but you don't have a complete inventory
or up-to-date architecture designs
to help you plan the migration.
Well, you can discover your application servers
and databases using the Application Discovery Service.
A discovery tool gathers data about your existing setup,
and the data is collected and sent over to AWS
over an encrypted connection,
and it's stored in AWS Migration Hub,
which we are going to learn all about in another lesson.
But for now, you just need to know that Migration Hub
is another tool used to help you coordinate
migrating your systems to AWS,
and it's used by the Application Discovery Service
to store the data that it's gathered.
So what sort of data is it going to collect?
Well, first of all, it creates a server inventory.
It also collects configuration data,
including operating system versions.
It collects capacity utilization data
so that you can rightsize your systems in AWS.
And inbound and outbound network connections
between servers.
And that's going to let you understand the dependencies
between the different systems.
How does it collect this data?
Well, it collects the data
using the Application Discovery Service agent.
You install the agent on your virtual machines
and physical servers,
and the agent gathers the data
and sends it all to the Application Discovery Service.
Now, if you are running VMware,
there's also the option of using an agentless collector,
and this is for migrating from VMware only.
The way it works is that the agentless collector
is installed as a virtual appliance
running in VMware vCenter.
So it's running on a separate virtual appliance
instead of being an agent
on your application or database servers.
The collector then identifies virtual machines and hosts
that are associated with your vCenter environment.
And then it sends the collected data
to the Application Discovery Service.
And the kind of thing it's collecting
is host names, IP addresses, MAC addresses,
disk resource allocations,
database engine versions, database schemas,
and capacity utilization metrics,
like CPU, RAM, and Disk I/O.
So for the exam,
remember that the Application Discovery Service
gathers data about your existing,
on-premises application servers and databases.
You install an agent on each server to collect the data.
And with VMware, you've got the option
to use an agentless collector,
which is the virtual appliance
deployed to VMware vCenter systems to avoid using an agent.
The data that it collects includes a server inventory,
configuration information, operating system versions,
capacity usage, and networking.
And this data can be used to develop a migration plan
to help you quickly and easily migrate your workloads
to AWS.
Well, that is all for this lesson,
and if you're ready to continue,
I'll see you in the next one.
Thank you.