Hi, and welcome back to this lesson on Amazon Lex.
Now, Lex is a service that allows you
to build conversational interfaces into your applications
using natural language models, so essentially chatbots.
And the chances are
that when you're talking to an automated bot online,
you are interacting with the Lex service on the backend.
Lex seamlessly integrates with AWS Lambda
for executing logic,
so for taking actions
based on the contents of your conversation.
It works with multiple different platforms
like mobile devices, web applications,
and chat services like Facebook Messenger.
It can handle speech or text input,
and uses automatic speech recognition
to understand human voices.
And that means it can support
both voice and text-based conversations.
And it uses natural language understanding
to understand user intent and deliver a natural experience.
Now, use cases include
building virtual agents and voice assistants,
for instance, to arrange refunds or flight changes,
password reset requests, and more.
Automate informational responses,
so to answer the frequently asked questions on your website
so that users can ask them directly
and get an answer in real time.
Or improve productivity with application bots,
and you can create chat bots
that can interact with your customers
and improve the productivity of customer support teams.
Now, in the real world, Lex is used extensively.
For example, for providing personalized shopping experiences
on e-commerce websites,
by healthcare applications
for patient engagement and inquiries,
in banking apps
for handling customer queries and transactions,
and by the hospitality industry
for reservation systems and guest services.
So for the exam, just know that Lex
is used to build conversational chatbots.
It uses machine learning and natural language models
to interact with humans,
and it's worth remembering some of the use cases
like providing helpful customer service chatbots
on your website.
Well, that is it for this lesson,
and if you're ready to move on,
I'll see you in the next one.
Thank you.