Hi and welcome back
to this lesson on CodeArtifact.
So what is CodeArtifact?
Well, it's an artifact repository
that lets developers securely store,
publish, and share software packages
that are needed for your software development process.
Examples of packages include Maven,
NPM, or Python packages.
And CodeArtifact is an artifact repository
that makes it easy for developers
to find the software packages that they need.
A package is simply a bundle of software
and CodeArtifact supports open-source software
from public repositories
as well as software developed in-house,
so developers can add software
that they've developed and created themselves.
Now let's say that you've got multiple development teams
working on different parts of an application.
Using an artifact repository like CodeArtifact
enables all of your developers
to easily get the correct version
of the software packages needed for their projects.
In this example, our development teams need to use
a specific version of a package called Express,
which is just an example of a framework
that's used for building web and mobile applications
using the Node.js programming language.
And this is a third party package
available from the public NPM repository.
So by using an artifact repository like CodeArtifact,
this avoids situations where somebody
is mistakenly using the wrong version,
and it also saves time because the developers
don't need to search the internet
for the particular software versions that they need.
Now you might be wondering, what are artifacts?
Well in this context, the term artifact
is used to describe a lot of different things,
including documentation, compiled applications,
deployable packages, and libraries.
And another reason why it's good practice
to use an artifact repository like this
is that IT leaders can make approved packages available
and developers will know where to find
the approved packages.
And when we talk about approved packages,
often this just means the version
that our engineering team is willing to support
because they've tested it
and they know that it works correctly.
If we just allowed people to use the latest version
of certain libraries and packages,
then we might run into issues with the software not behaving
in the way that we intend.
So for the exam, CodeArtifact is an artifact repository
that makes it easy for developers
to find the software versions that they need.
Artifacts includes documentation, compiled applications,
deployable packages and libraries.
CodeArtifact supports third party
or in-house developed artifacts,
and it's used by developers to find
the approved software packages that they need
and to publish their own.
Well, that is it for this lesson.
Any questions let me know,
otherwise please join me for the next one.
Thank you.