Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on Amazon QuickSight.
Let's first consider a common problem with data.
Many businesses are storing large amounts of data
in a variety of different places,
with more being generated each day.
But how do we make the most of all this data,
and use it to help us make better business decisions?
For instance, which products should we restock and when,
or who are our most loyal customers?
Well, the solution is Amazon QuickSight,
and QuickSight is a software as a service model
business analytics service.
It connects to your AWS data sources,
as well as on-premises data,
and it allows you to create dashboards
to gain business insights.
So QuickSight is all about getting value from your data.
It connects to data sources,
whether they're in AWS or they're hosted on-premises,
and it allows you to build out dashboards with graphs,
bar charts, scatterplots, pie charts, heat maps,
and loads of other different types of diagram
that let you visualize your data
and display it in different ways
so that you can see what's going on,
and really make informed business decisions
that are data-driven.
Common use cases include analyzing sales performance
to gain insights on your sales, for instance,
to understand who is buying what,
which are your most successful products,
and are there any regional differences,
using application traffic data
to visualize trends in your application's traffic,
and understand things like what are the most popular times,
and what are your maximum concurrent users,
or to perform marketing campaign analysis
to measure engagement and conversion rates,
and gather point-in-time data to visualize trends.
So for the exam, know that QuickSight
is a business analytics service
that lets you make better decisions based on your data.
It's able to connect to AWS data
and on-premises data sources,
and it lets you build dashboards to visualize your data,
and supports lots of different types of graphs and charts
to display your data in different ways,
and use cases include
analyzing sales performance and trends,
application usage and traffic, and marketing campaign data.
Well, that's all for this one,
and if you're ready to move on to the next lesson,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.