Hi, and welcome back to this lesson,
where we'll answer the question,
what is Elastic Beanstalk?
And we'll jump straight in with a use case.
Imagine you're a developer,
busy developing your billion-dollar web application.
You probably want to focus on writing code,
and you don't want to worry
about any of the underlying infrastructure
that's needed to run the application.
Do you really want to be bothered
with ensuring the infrastructure is resilient,
load balanced, and scalable?
Do you want to worry about installing
and maintaining the runtime environments needed
to run your application,
like Java, .NET, or node.js,
or the web application platforms needed
to serve your application over the internet
platforms like Apache Tomcat, HTTP Server, Nginx,
Microsoft IIS, or Docker?
Well, this is where Elastic Beanstalk comes in.
As a developer, you can simply upload your application code,
and Elastic Beanstalk
will provision the infrastructure needed
to run your application in production,
including the installation
and management of the application stack needed
to run your application.
So it's gonna take care of capacity provisioning,
load balancing, auto-scaling,
and application health monitoring using CloudWatch.
So Elastic Beanstalk allows developers
to focus on their code.
There's no need to worry
about configuring the underlying infrastructure needed
to run the application.
That means that you can get your application
to market faster.
It's the fastest and simplest way
to deploy your application in AWS.
And Elastic Beanstalk also handles
operating system patches and updates,
as well as updates
to whatever web server application platform you're using
as well, like Apache Tomcat or HTTP Server.
So in summary,
Elastic Beanstalk deploys
and scales your web applications,
including the web application server platform.
It provisions the AWS resources for you,
so everything that your application needs to run,
for instance, EC2 instances, RDS databases,
S3 Storage, Elastic Load Balancers,
and it will even configure Auto Scaling Groups as well.
It supports programming languages like Java, .NET,
PHP, node.js, Python, Ruby, and Go.
And it supports application server platforms
like Apache Tomcat, Microsoft IIS, Nginx, and Docker.
You also get operating system
and application server updates.
Monitoring, metrics, and health checks are also included.
So that is all for this lesson,
and if you'd like to continue,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.