Hi, and welcome back to this lesson on Kendra.
Now, Kendra is an intelligent search service
that uses natural language processing
to let you query your data using natural language
instead of using a programming language,
and it enables you to provide
a customized search capability,
allowing you to search your data
or find the answers to customer queries.
Data sources include S3, FSx, RDS, Aurora,
Oracle, or SQL Server.
It also supports websites and external drives,
like Google Drive or Dropbox, SharePoint or GitHub.
As for data types, it supports unstructured
and semi-structured data in formats like HTML, XML,
PDF, CSV, or Microsoft Office,
including Word documents and PowerPoint documents.
How does it work?
Well, imagine you have some documents stored in S3
that you want to be able to query using natural language.
Well, Kendra can first index your data,
and the index holds the contents of your documents,
and it's structured in a way that makes them searchable.
After the index is created,
you can then question Kendra using natural language,
and it will provide the answers using the data in the index.
Here's some examples of the type of questions
that you can ask.
So, firstly, you can ask fact-based questions,
so simple questions, like who, what, where, and when.
For instance, "When is the deadline for completing
"the compliance training?"
And the answer will then be retrieved
from your indexed documents.
Now, you can also ask descriptive questions,
and with this type of question,
the answer could be a paragraph or a document.
For instance, "How do I register
"for the AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner Exam,"
or even, "How do I return a faulty item?"
And Kendra is gonna retrieve the answer from your data.
Now, for the exam, know that we can use Kendra
to add custom search to our applications,
so users can search based on the data that we provide.
You can query the data using natural language,
and Kendra uses natural language processing
to handle the query.
Data sources include S3, FSx, RDS, databases,
as well as external sources, like GitHub and Google Drive.
Data could be unstructured or semi-structured,
and it supports formats like HTML, XML, PDF,
CSV, and Microsoft Office,
and the types of questions that you can ask
are simple fact-based questions, like who, what, and where,
or more descriptive questions like,
"How do I return a faulty item?"
Well, that is all for this lesson,
and if you're ready to move on,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.