Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on Kinesis.
So what is Kinesis?
Well, it's a family of services that enables you to collect,
process and analyze streaming data in real time.
And it allows you to build custom applications
for your own business needs and make decisions
or take actions based on the data that you're streaming.
Now, when I first came across Kinesis,
I wondered why did they choose that name?
Well, Kinesis is originally a Greek word
and it means movement or motion,
and it's actually a really good name for this service
because Kinesis deals with data that is in motion,
moving from one place to another.
So in other words, with streaming data rather than data
that's static or stored on disc or in S3 or in a database.
So Kinesis is all about handling streaming data,
which is essentially data generated continuously
by thousands of data sources
or producers that typically send data records simultaneously
in small sizes of just a few kilobytes.
For instance, think about a stream
of financial transactions, or it could be stock prices.
What about in-game data created as the player progresses
through the game or social media feeds,
location tracking data.
For example, the kind of location data used by Uber
or Google Maps, IOT sensors or internet of things.
So think about sensors inside a factory,
detecting air temperature or quality, clickstream data,
or even application log files.
So we're talking about a fairly steady stream that consists
of lots of small pieces of unstructured data.
And Kinesis allows you to collect
and analyze this type of data in real time so
that you can make decisions
and take actions based on your findings.
Now, Kinesis isn't just one service,
it's actually a few different services,
but the one thing they all have in common is
that they're all dealing with streaming data.
So first of all, we've got Kinesis streams,
and this enables you to stream data
or video to allow you to build custom applications
that process the data in real time.
And with Kinesis streams,
there are two different options available.
Kinesis data streams deals with data,
so it lets you process streaming data
and Kinesis video streams,
which is designed to be used with video data.
So it lets you stream video into AWS
for storage and processing.
Here's an example of how you might use Kinesis data streams.
On the left, we've got our data producers,
and these are all the devices
that are producing the data.
It could be applications running on EC2 instances,
mobile devices, laptops, and IOT devices.
So connected devices like devices in a factory
or a vehicle, anything connected to a network.
And all of these devices are producing data
and they're sending it over to Kinesis data streams.
Now, Kinesis Streams retains the data by default
for 24 hours with a maximum of 365 days retention.
The data is stored in these things called shards,
and a shard is basically a sequence of data records.
Each data record has a unique sequence number
and a Kinesis stream is made up of one or more shards.
So the data gets stored in these shards.
It's retained for 24 hours by default,
but once our data is in Kinesis, if we want to do anything
with it, we will need to introduce some data consumers.
And these could be EC2 instances or Lambda functions,
for example, which consume the data from Kinesis.
And the consumers basically take the data from
the shard and process it.
For instance, they might run some algorithm on stock prices,
run sentiment analysis on a social media feed,
or analyze clickstream data
to generate product recommendations.
After the data consumers have completed their calculations,
they can then send the data to permanent storage,
for example, to DynamoDB, S3, Elastic Map Produce,
or Redshift, for example.
But the main thing to understand is
that Kinesis data streams is basically facilitating
this whole architecture by making it easy to collect
and stream the data so
that your application can then consume
and process it as you wish.
Now for the exam, the main thing I would like you
to take away from this lesson is that Kinesis is a service
that enables you to collect, process,
and analyze streaming data in real time.
Examples of streaming data include website, click streams,
social media feeds,
IOT telemetry data and stock prices.
And Kinesis data streams is for streaming data,
whereas Kinesis video streams is for streaming video,
for instance, from connected video devices.
So that is the end of this lesson,
and if you're ready to move on,
I'll see you in the next one.
Thank you.