Hi, and welcome back to this lesson
on Amazon OpenSearch.
Before we dive in, let's review Elasticsearch.
And you may have heard about Elasticsearch before
because it's a very widely used
open-source data analysis technology,
allowing you to get real-time insights from your data.
You can use it to analyze business data,
to gain insights and make better business decisions.
And another common use case is to search your log data
so you can use it to search application, infrastructure,
and security logs to better understand
how your systems are operating.
Now, Amazon OpenSearch
is a fully-managed Elasticsearch service.
The reason it exists
is because deploying and administering
your own Elasticsearch cluster
can be a very time-consuming and complex process.
So that is where the OpenSearch Service comes in
to make getting up and running with Elasticsearch
a whole lot easier.
The great thing about it
is that AWS does all the heavy lifting for you,
including hardware provisioning
and configuring the Elasticsearch cluster.
They also take care of software installation and patching,
and failure recovery, automated backups, and monitoring.
It's compatible with all the standard
Elasticsearch open-source APIs.
It integrates with data ingestion tools like Logstash,
which is used for data collection and processing,
and visualization tools like Kibana,
which is used for search and data visualization,
allowing you to create bar charts, line graphs,
and scatterplots.
It also integrates with AWS services
like CloudWatch for monitoring.
And you can also use CloudWatch Logs
and Kinesis Firehose for data ingestion.
And you can even use Lambda functions
to respond to new data, say in S3 or DynamoDB,
by processing it and streaming it to OpenSearch.
So for the exam, remember that Amazon OpenSearch
is fully-managed Elasticsearch,
and it's based on open-source technology.
It's compatible with industry standard
Elasticsearch open-source APIs,
as well as Logstash,
which is used for data collection and processing,
and Kibana for search and data visualization.
You can ingest data from AWS services like CloudWatch Logs,
S3, and DynamoDB and Firehose as well.
And use cases include log analytics, application monitoring,
security analytics, and business data analytics.
Well, that's all for this lesson,
and if you're ready to move on,
please join me in the next one.
Thank you.