Hey there, Gurus.
Welcome to the Foundations of Cloud Computing Exam Tips.
In this lesson,
we'll review our exam tips and important pieces
from lessons in this section.
Let's get started.
Our first stop is knowing the service categories.
And that means reading the AWS Services Whitepaper.
It will help to automatically know
that some of the answers are wrong
and be able to pick services that fit the description.
For example, if the question is looking
for a compute service to migrate to,
and your answers are RDS, VPC,
S3, WAF, and EC2,
knowing that EC2 is a compute service
and the others are not just gave you the right answer.
Remember that the six advantages of the cloud are:
going global in minutes, stop spending money
on your own data centers,
stop guessing capacity, increase speed and agility,
benefit from massive economies of scale,
and trade fixed expenses for variable expenses.
Remember cloud benefits, like high availability,
elasticity, agility, and durability,
but also understand what they mean in the cloud.
And that means reading your terminology link
that I provided.
Remember the cloud computing models:
IaaS, or infrastructure as a service,
which is like having a monthly subscription
to host your website through a company,
SaaS, or software as a service,
which is like your email being available through a browser,
and PaaS, or platform as a service,
which is what developers use like tools provided
by a company to build an application that runs
on the other company's server.
Remember the three cloud deployment models.
They are private, which is everything running
on your local network in your own data center
or on premises, public,
which is utilizing something like AWS to run everything,
and then there's hybrid,
which bridges the two together with Direct Connect.
Understand that Regions are made up of two or more AZs,
or Availability Zones.
AZs are made up of multiple data centers.
And multi-AZ means high availability and fault tolerance.
Remember that low latency is good,
and Edge Locations provide that low latency
by caching content near users,
as it's a feature of CloudFront.
Local Zones are an extension of a Region
that brings AWS services closer to end users,
providing millisecond latencies
for things like real-time gaming.
Remember that the Cloud Adoption Framework has phases:
envision, align, launch, and scale.
And it's continuous.
It includes six foundational capabilities
and has four transformation domains
that are all covered throughout that process.
Using the framework will reduce business risk,
improve ESG, grow revenue,
and increase operational efficiency.
The Well-Architected Framework has six pillars:
security, cost optimization,
performance efficiency, operational excellence,
reliability, and sustainability.
Know those pillars.
We talked about different services being examples
of how each pillar can be applied,
but really, understand what each pillar focuses on
so you can pick a service that fits it.
Let's move on to the AWS Management Console.
Our biggest point here was understanding
that the root user is the most powerful user
and has more power than others,
so it can do things like delete your account,
including all of the resources in it.
Because it is so powerful,
it needs to be protected,
and you can do this using MFA,
or multi-factor authentication.
You can manage your AWS resources within the Console,
as well as the AWS CLI, or Command Line Interface,
through application code, and SDKs,
or Software Development Kits.
We know we need to protect the root user with MFA,
and we can also create a user or group for daily tasks,
so that's always steps one and two
when creating your AWS account.
Remember how to navigate through the Console
using widgets, clicking the services drop-down menu
or searching for the service,
and always remember to check the region you're in
before creating, terminating, or modifying any resources.
That was a pretty quick section,
but a little dense at times.
Make sure you take the quiz to make sure you've got all
of this down.
I'll see you in the next section when you're ready.