Hey there Gurus, welcome to
the Compute Technology and Services Exam Tips.
In this lesson, we'll review our exam tips
from lessons in this section, let's get started.
Remember, EC2 pricing options.
They are on-demand, spot instances,
dedicated hosts, reserved instances, and savings plans.
Remember, spot instances are the cheapest option
if start and stop times don't matter.
Savings plans and reserved instances
are time commitments from 1 to 3 years.
Remember, dedicated hosts are not
the same as dedicated instances.
Next up, we have our real-world uses for EC2.
Remember to use them for deploying
a highly available application
or a database that you fully control.
Remember the two types of scaling and their benefits:
horizontal or scaling out, and vertical or scaling up.
Horizontal scaling has the added benefit
of adding high availability
as it is done across multiple AZs.
Next is remember the four types of load balancers.
They are classic, gateway, application and network.
Application load balancers use HTTP
and HTTPS protocols for your applications.
And network load balancers offer extreme performance
and static IPs with TCP, UDP and TLS protocols.
Remember, how to connect to an EC2 instance
whether it's using the console,
instance connect, SSH, or systems manager.
And remember that a key pair
is necessary to use with SSH access.
Next up, we have know the differences
between ECS that supports Docker
and is owned and managed by AWS
and EKS, which is fully managed by AWS,
but supports an open source system known as Kubernetes.
When you think containers think lift and shifts,
anything that mentions microservices architecture,
CI/CD deployments and refactoring applications.
Let's move on to our serverless topics.
We'll start with knowing your responsibility
when using serverless services like Lambda.
You are responsible for your code only.
AWS manages servers, the environment and language support.
Understand that Fargate is considered serverless
and is used to manage containers.
Know that Lambda has an always free tier
that includes 1 million requests free a month.
It has a 15 minute timeout and can be triggered by events.
Know that Fargate has no upfront costs and that you pay only
for what you use in VCPUs, memory and storage.
Let's move on to our additional compute services.
Remember, outposts support hybrid deployment models
while maintaining local data residency requirements.
Lightsail is a compute services
that quickly launches small projects
like test environments or pre-configured WordPress websites.
Batch processes larger, longer workloads
into smaller batches.
And finally, wavelength allows users
and devices to reach applications
without leaving the 5G mobile network.
That was a pretty quick section,
but it was a little dense at times.
Make sure you take the quiz to make sure
you've got this all down and start
the next section when you're ready.