Hi everybody.
In this lesson, we'll be going over storage exam tips.
This session will highlight important points from our
storage related topics.
Let's dive on in.
Let's start with EC2 storage options.
Remember that EBS is like the pizza oven
in our EC2 kitchen, it's directly attached.
EBS provides persistent block storage for EC2 instances.
It can take backups
and also use those backups to create new volumes.
We described EFS like a pizza conveyor system
that can serve many kitchens or EC2 instances
and give many chefs access to it.
EFS offers scalable file storage ideal for use
with multiple EC2 instances.
It automatically scales on demand without
disrupting applications.
Instance stores are like a temporary prep table.
You prepare your ingredients or data there,
but if you shut down the kitchen
or terminate the instance, the prep is gone.
Instance stores provide temporary block level storage
with high IOPS.
Understand when to use each type based on durability,
data persistence, and performance needs.
For Amazon S3,
remember that we described it as a giant walk-in
refrigerator with all our ingredients or data.
Remember S3's high durability
and scalability features.
Understand S3's security measures like bucket
policies and ACLs.
Be familiar with S3 features like versioning
and lifecycle policies.
Remember that versioning lets you keep multiple versions
of an object in your bucket and lifecycle policies
let you set rules that define actions to be taken on a group
of objects.
Regarding S3 storage classes,
S3 standard is like your refrigerator's
primary shelves for ingredients
or data that's frequently accessed.
S3 intelligent tiering is the dynamic
shelves in your fridge.
Perfect for data with unpredictable access patterns.
S3 standard infrequent access is like your pantry,
designed for data that's less frequently accessed,
but requires rapid access when needed.
S3 one zone infrequent access is like a special
section in your fridge,
storing data in just one availability zone.
Less durable, but more cost effective.
S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval is like the top drawer in
your freezer, allowing you to quickly access
important ingredients,
but ones that aren't used so often.
S3 Glacier Flexible retrieval is like another
compartment in your deep freezer
that isn't accessed as much.
And then we have S3 Glacier Deep Archive,
and this is the very bottom of your deep freezer.
The most cost-effective for long-term archival.
Up next is additional storage services.
Remember to think of FSX
as a specially designed storage shelf tailored for those
pizzas requiring very specific conditions.
In this case, that specific condition is Windows workloads.
Elastic Disaster Recovery is like the backup
generator for our pizza kitchen.
If there's a power outage,
it ensures the pizza making continues.
Elastic disaster recovery allows you
to maintain business continuity without disruptions.
Know the differences between the EBS volume types.
For SSD, there's general purpose SSD,
provisioned IOPS SSD, and for HDD,
there's throughput optimized HDD and cold HDD.
Remember that SSD is for high IOPS
and HDD is for throughput.
AWS storage gateway is like a delivery scooter
that brings ingredients or data from an offsite location
or on-premises to our AWS kitchen.
Be able to differentiate
between file gateway, volume gateway,
tape gateway, and FSX file.
Gateway knowhow storage gateway facilitates data migration,
backup, and archival.
AWS backup is like the recipe book.
If something goes wrong, you can refer to the recipe book
to recreate the pizza.
Understand AWS backup as a centralized service
for automating and managing backups across AWS services.
Recognize the importance of automated backup policies
and their role in simplifying data protection.
Know that data is secure with AWS backup,
and be aware of AWS backups capabilities in terms
of cross region backup, supporting compliance
and disaster recovery strategies.
That was a pretty quick overview of storage tips.
Make sure you take the quiz
to further solidify your understanding of the subjects.
See you in the next section.