Hi everybody.
In this lesson, we'll be going over content delivery
and networking exam tips.
This session will highlight important points
from our content delivery and networking related topics.
Let's dive in.
Remember that we described CDNs as a network
of speedy delivery routes that get your delicious pizzas
or website content to hungry customers
or users around the world.
In AWS, we have Amazon CloudFront,
which is our premier pizza delivery network.
CloudFront works by caching your content
in multiple data centers known as edge locations.
When a user requests your content,
CloudFront serves it from the edge location
nearest to the user.
Remember that CloudFront can be used for delivering videos,
applications, or data anywhere in the world.
Next up is AWS Global Accelerator.
AWS Global Accelerator improves application performance
by directing traffic through Amazon's optimized paths.
It can be beneficial to use in cases of global user bases,
high traffic events, and multi-region applications.
It simplifies traffic management across multiple regions,
acting as a single entry point,
and thus reducing the complexity
of handling global network traffic.
Don't forget its built-in DDoS protection
and automatic failover capabilities.
It integrates with other AWS services,
such as Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon EC2, and Amazon S3.
Let's briefly touch on VPC or Virtual Private Cloud.
Our VPC has multiple components,
and our VPC is located within an availability zone
that is isolated from failures in other availability zones.
Remember that subnets allow you
to segment your VPC into different network sections.
Public subnets are accessible from the internet,
ideal for front end servers, while private subnets are used
for backend systems like databases.
Route tables control the flow of traffic within the VPC.
Each subnet in your VPC is associated with a route table
that dictates where its traffic should go,
and Internet Gateway allows resources in your public subnets
to communicate with the internet.
Security groups act as virtual firewalls
for EC2 instances controlling inbound and outbound traffic,
at the instance level, they are stateful.
Network ACLs, on the other hand, provide an additional layer
of security at the subnet level, controlling both inbound
and outbound traffic.
They are stateless.
Moving on to DNS service with Amazon Route 53.
Recall that a domain name system
or DNS is like the big phone book of the internet.
DNS works behind the scenes
to find the corresponding IP address to a website URL
In the AWS universe, Amazon Route 53 is our DNS service.
It provides domain name registration,
health checks, and failover,
different types of routing like geolocation routing,
latency based routing, and weighted round robin routing.
It scales automatically
and integrates with AWS services.
For hybrid networking in AWS,
remember that AWS Direct Connect is like a private road
built exclusively for your use.
It provides a direct private connection
from your data center to AWS bypassing the public internet.
AWS VPN is like an armored vehicle,
transporting ingredients safely on public roads.
It encrypts your data, safeguarding it
as it travels over the internet to AWS.
Remember that there are two types of VPNs.
Site-to-site VPN creates secure connection
between your data center or branch office
and your AWS environment.
Client VPN allows you to securely access your AWS resources
or your private network from any location.
You might wanna use Direct Connect
if your organization regularly transfers massive amounts
of data, you have applications
that need real-time data analytics,
or you have sensitive data
you don't want traversing the public internet.
A VPN might be useful if you want encrypted connections
for remote access, you have smaller data transfer needs,
or you want a quick, easy, flexible setup.
That was a pretty quick overview
of content delivery and networking tips.
Make sure you take the quiz
to further solidify your understanding of the subjects.
See you in the next section.