Hi everybody.
In this lesson, we'll be going over database exam tips.
This session will highlight important points from our
database-related topics.
Let's dive on in.
Remember that we described databases like different methods
of organizing our ingredients.
Relational databases like Amazon RDS
are structured and organized.
NoSQL databases such as DynamoDB provide more flexibility
with key value pairs.
In memory databases like MemoryDB for Redis
offer rapid data access,
and we also mentioned Neptune,
a graph database handling data with complex relationships
and interconnections, making it ideal for certain types
of applications like fraud detection
or recommendation systems.
Remember that a relational database is a type of database
that stores and provides access to data
that is organized into rows and columns, like a table.
RDS supports various database engines like
MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariahDB, Oracle, and SQL Server.
RDS is ideal for structured data storage, complex queries
and transactional applications.
An example of where RDS works in the real world is
e-commerce platforms to manage inventory, customer orders
or product catalogs.
AWS Database Migration Service
or DMS is crucial for migrating databases to AWS
with minimal downtime.
It supports both homogeneous and heterogeneous migrations
and is essential for efficiently moving
databases to the cloud.
Remember that AWS Schema conversion tool
or SCT is a powerful tool
that helps convert the database schema
or the blueprint of how the database is constructed
of your source database into a format,
compatible with AWS target databases.
DynamoDB is a NoSQL key value
and document database, ideal for applications
that need consistent, single digit millisecond latency.
It's highly scalable and managed,
perfect for mobile web gaming and IOT applications.
It automatically scales up and down to adjust for capacity
and to maintain performance,
and also enables you to build security
sensitive applications.
For ultra fast data access, AWS offers
memory-based databases.
MemoryDB for Redis provides durability
for in-memory databases.
It's like keeping your most used pizza ingredients on the
counter for quick access.
It automatically replicates data across multiple AWS
availability zones, ensuring data durability
and high availability, perfect for session stores
and gaming leaderboards,
where it can give you real time updates
of player scores and ranks.
That was a pretty quick overview of database tips.
Make sure you take the quiz
to further solidify your understanding of the subjects.
See you in the next section.