Hi, and welcome back to this lesson,
which is part two of the summary and exam tips
for the AI machine learning and analytics section.
Beginning with managed streaming for Apache Kafka
or Amazon MSK,
which is a fully managed Apache Kafka service.
It can process streams of events from hundreds
of different event sources and it's used
to build real time data streaming applications.
And my example use case is an application that's used
to track and analyze stock market data in real time.
QuickSight is a business analytics service that lets
you make better business decisions based on your data.
It's able to connect to AWS data
and on-premises data stores,
and it lets you build dashboards to visualize your data.
For instance, you can build scatter plots, pie charts
and bar graphs, et cetera.
And use cases include analyzing sales, performance
and trends, application usage and traffic
and marketing campaign data.
SageMaker is a fully managed machine learning service
and it can import data from AWS data sources
like S3, Athena, Redshift, or Elastic Map Produce.
It can also help you identify potential errors
in your data, data quality issues and bias.
It lets you build your model using built-in models
for common use cases or custom models that you provide.
Then you can use it to train your model
using optimized infrastructure and it can also help you
with automatic model tuning as well.
And then finally, you can use SageMaker
to deploy the model to optimized EC2 instances.
And there's also a serverless option,
or you can deploy to physical devices located on premises.
Lex is a service used to build conversational chat bots
and it uses machine learning
and natural language models to interact with humans.
And it's worth remembering the use cases
like providing a helpful customer service chatbot
on your website.
We can use Kendra to add custom search to our application,
letting users search based on your data.
You can query using natural language,
and Kendra uses natural language processing
to handle your queries.
Data sources include S3, FSx, RDS, databases
and external data sources like GitHub or Google Drive.
Data can be unstructured or semi-structured.
And Kendra supports formats like HTML, XML, PDF, CSV
or Microsoft Office.
So think Word documents or PowerPoint documents.
The types of questions that you can ask Kendra are simple
fact-based questions like who, what or where,
or descriptive questions like,
how do I return a faulty item?
Polly is a service that uses deep learning
to add natural sounding speech to your applications.
Use cases could be to have Polly read a blog post,
a short story, or read the contents of a website
to help people that have visually impaired.
You provide the text and Polly will generate speech
that could be streamed, downloaded, or saved to S3.
And Polly supports a variety of different languages
and voices with more being added all the time.
Comprehend uses natural language processing
or NLP to process text.
It's used to discover key phrases, topics
and languages, perform sentiment analysis
and provide intelligent search that's focused on intent
and context instead of just basic keywords.
And comprehend is all about reading
and understanding your text-based data
and it can be used with documents,
customer interactions, reviews, emails,
support messages, and social media feeds.
Textract, Transcribe, and Translate are all machine learning
services that perform automated document processing
that helps you reduce manual effort.
They all sound pretty similar, so be sure
to understand the differences between these services.
So Textract, extracts text
and information from your documents.
Transcribe is a speech to text service
that takes speeches input, and transcribes it to text.
And then Translate is for accurate,
natural sounding language translation.
Recognition is used for image and video analysis.
It can perform content moderation to identify harmful
or offensive images, identity verification, for instance,
identifying celebrities or for identification purposes.
And it can be used to identify objects
or text within images.
While that's all for this lesson, well done
for getting through another section of the course.
And if you are ready to continue,
please join us in the next one.
Thank you.