Hi, and welcome back to this lesson,
which is a summary of all the exam tips
for the migration and transfer section.
Beginning with the Snow Family,
which is the solution to use
if you have large amounts of data,
10 terabytes or more, that needs to be transferred to AWS
and you cannot do it over the network.
You will need to know the four different options
that are available and what each one is used for.
So there's the basic snowball
used if you have 10 terabytes or more to migrate.
Snowball Edge is for when you have 10 terabytes or more,
but you need the device to also process the data
before it goes to AWS.
Snowmobile is the shipping container full of discs
getting towed by a truck,
and this is for moving massive data sets,
10 petabytes or more.
And then going from the largest to the smallest option,
the cute little Snowcone,
it's so small, you can fit it in a backpack.
It's portable, military grade and holds up to 14 terabytes.
And this is the one used to migrate data
from locations that do not have proper data centers
like military bases.
And the Snow Family is essentially a data transfer solution.
Transfer Family is all about file sharing
and transfer with external third parties.
External parties can transfer files out of your storage,
for instance, using SFTP GET,
or, they can transfer files in, for instance, using SFTP PUT
and multiple commonly used file transfer protocols
are supported.
The database migration service
is used to migrate databases and analytics workloads to AWS,
and you can migrate from EC2, on-premises or from RDS.
Whereas the schema conversion tool
converts your database from one type to another.
For instance, converting Oracle to Aurora MySQL,
MySQL to RDS MySQL,
or SQL Server to Aurora PostgreSQL.
So it is basically converting the database
to a different database technology or schema.
Data sync, lets you securely transfer terabytes of data
to S3, EFS or FSX.
It supports NFS, SMB, or object stores.
Data can be transferred from on-premises locations
from another cloud provider or from AWS storage
and use cases include migration,
replication to low-cost storage, archiving in AWS
and hybrid or multi-cloud workflows.
The application discovery service
gathers data about
existing on-premises application servers and databases.
An agent is installed on each server,
which collects the data.
Alternatively, there's also an agentless option as well.
And with this option, a virtual appliance can be deployed
to VMware vCenter to avoid using an agent.
The data collected includes server inventory, configuration,
operating system information,
capacity usage, and networking.
And this data can be used to develop a migration plan
to move your applications and data to AWS.
The application migration service
is an automated lift and shift service,
which automatically migrates applications to AWS
without modifying them in any way.
The AWS replication agent is installed on the source server
and replicates everything to a new server in AWS.
And you can use it to migrate applications
running on physical servers, on virtual servers,
from other cloud providers
and other AWS accounts or regions.
And AWS Migration Hub
combines all of these migration related tools in one place.
So it's a central place to manage the migration
of applications and data into AWS.
It's integrated with the application discovery service,
the application migration service,
and the database migration service.
And it lets you group service together logically
so that you can plan and track
the progress of your migration.
Well, that's it for this lesson,
well done for reaching the end of this section.
And if you'd like to continue,
please join us for the next section of the course.
Thank you.