Hi, and welcome back to this lesson,
which is part one of the summary of all the exam tips
for the AI, Machine Learning, and Analytic section,
beginning with Redshift and Redshift Serverless.
So just remember that Redshift is a data warehousing service
and Redshift Serverless is just the serverless version
of Redshift,
which means there's no infrastructure to manage.
Redshift is highly scalable
and can store a huge amount of data,
so think petabytes of data,
and it's designed for Online Analytics Processing or OLAP.
So if you see anything in the exam related to OLAP
or Data Warehouse, I want you to think Redshift.
Kinesis enables you to collect, process, and analyze
streaming data in real time.
And a couple of examples of streaming data
are things like website click streams
or IoT Telemetry data.
Kinesis streams capture and store streaming video and data.
So Kinesis data streams deals with streaming data
and Kinesis video streams deals with streaming video
and consumer applications consume the data
and video from Kinesis.
Whereas Kinesis Firehose captures, transforms,
and loads the data continuously into data stores.
So Firehose is all about transforming,
and loading the data rather than providing it
directly to a consumer.
Athena is an interactive query service for data
that is held in S3,
and it allows you to query data stored in S3
using standard SQL.
It's serverless and you don't need to configure
any infrastructure to use Athena
and use cases include querying log files
or generating reports from your S3 data.
AWS Glue is a service that's used to prepare your data
for analytics and machine learning.
It crawls your data to create a data catalog,
which includes metadata, like the type of data.
It then performs, extract, transform, and load,
so it can extract your data from data sources
like RDS, S3, or Kinesis, et cetera.
Transform the data by categorizing it, cleaning it,
removing duplicates, and joining multiple data sets.
And then finally, it can load your data
into data sources like RDS, S3, Redshift, or Athena.
AWS Data Exchange is a service that lets you subscribe
to data products that are provided by third parties.
For instance, data relating to financial services,
healthcare, weather, manufacturing, and telecommunications.
An example use case is to analyze customer spending patterns
based on geographic location,
using data from companies like MasterCard.
You can create and publish your own data products
and let other accounts subscribe.
And the reason that people subscribe to this kind of service
is to use the data for analytics, machine learning,
and decision-making.
Onto Elastic MapReduce or EMR.
And this is a fully-managed big data service.
It supports open source technologies like Apache Spark,
Apache Hive, Presto, and Hadoop.
It's used for petabyte scale,
parallel data processing and analysis,
for structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data.
And use cases for a big data solution like EMR
include finding patterns in genomic data,
identifying preferences from clickstream data,
or analyzing application log data.
Amazon OpenSearch is a fully-managed elastic search service,
and it's based on open-source technology.
It's compatible with industry standard elastic search
open-source APIs,
as well as Logstash for data collection and processing,
and Kibana for search and data visualization.
It can ingest data from AWS services like CloudWatch Logs,
S3, and DynamoDB,
and use cases include log analytics, application monitoring,
security analytics, and business data analytics.
Well, that is all for part one,
and if you're ready to continue, please join me
for part two of this lesson.
Thank you.